
The sequence below includes all officially available options and considerations. 

> [!Select Crew Size]-
> The default campaign crew size is 6 crew members. This is both the starting crew size as well as the maximum number of characters you can bring on a mission.
> 
> If you prefer a smaller game, you may set the campaign crew size to 5 or even 4. This affects your starting crew size and the maximum number of characters you may deploy in a battle. Players can always opt (and are sometimes forced) to bring fewer characters to a battle, but enemy number is always based on the campaign crew size, as shown below:
> 
> ### Crew Size 6
> - Begin the game with 6 characters.
> - You may deploy up to 6 characters in battle.
> - When determining enemy numbers you will fight, roll 2D6 and use the higher result of the two dice.
> 
> ### Crew Size 5
> - Begin the game with 5 characters.
> - You may deploy up to 5 characters in battle.
> - When determining enemy numbers you will fight, roll 1D6.
> 
> ### Crew Size 4
> - Begin the game with 4 characters.
> - You may deploy up to 4 characters in battle.
> - When determining enemy numbers you will fight, roll 2D6 and use the lower result of the two dice.
> 
> Note that regardless of the selected crew size, you can end up with any number of characters on your crew roster as you play the campaign. You are only limited in how many you can bring to a battle.

> [!Victory Conditions]-
> 
> Campaigns may potentially go on indefinitely. You may also opt to use the Story Track to add a narrative story to the campaign play. If you like to have a distinct goal in sight, select a Victory Condition now.
> 
> Note that some of these goals are intentionally quite a grind, and some are heavily luck-based.
> 
> - Play 20 campaign turns
> - Play 50 campaign turns
> - Play 100 campaign turns
> - Complete 3 Quests
> - Complete 5 Quests
> - Complete 10 Quests
> - Win 20 tabletop battles
> - Win 50 tabletop battles
> - Win 100 tabletop battles
> - Kill 10 Unique Individuals
> - Kill 25 Unique Individuals
> - Upgrade a single character 10 times
> - Upgrade 3 characters 10 times
> - Upgrade 5 characters 10 times
> - Story Track
> - Play 50 campaign turns in Challenging mode
> - Play 50 campaign turns in Hardcore mode
> - Play 50 campaign turns in Insanity mode
> 
> For Character Upgrade Victory Conditions, the characters do not have to be in the crew at the same time. If one character Upgrades 10 times and dies, all 10 Character Upgrades still count.
> 
> If you select a Victory Condition, it cannot be changed, and you can only achieve that selected condition, even if you would qualify for others. You cannot add a Victory Condition once a campaign has been started.
> 
> Selecting and completing a Victory Condition awards an Elite Rank, which grants additional benefits to new campaigns. Each Victory Condition can only award an Elite Rank once.

> [!Select a Difficulty Mode]-
> If you prefer an easier or more difficult experience, you may choose to play on an alternative difficulty mode.
> ### Easy
> - After every battle, select a crew member to receive +1 XP.
> - Increase post-battle rewards by +1 credit.
> - When setting up a tabletop battle, if you would face 5+ opponents, remove one Basic enemy.
> - Only the Play 20 campaign turns and Win 20 tabletop battles Victory Conditions can be completed in the Easy difficulty mode.
> ### Normal
> No changes to game mechanics. All rules apply as written.
> ### Challenging
> - When rolling to determine enemy numbers faced in battle, count any die rolling a 1 or 2 as a 3.
> ### Hardcore
> - As Challenging plus add an additional Basic enemy to every battle.
> - Add +2 to all Invasion rolls.
> - Apply a -2 penalty to all Seize the Initiative rolls.
> - Add +1 when rolling for Unique Individuals.
> - Begin the campaign with one less story point.
> ### Insanity
> - As Hardcore plus add an additional specialist enemy to every battle.
> - Add +3 to all Invasion rolls.
> - Apply a -3 penalty to all Seize the Initiative rolls.
> - The opposing side always includes a [[Unique Individual]], even for [[Roving Threats]].
> - Roll 2D6. On an 11-12, they include two Unique Individuals.
> - Receive no “Stars of the Story” options.
> - Receive no story points. If an item or event would grant them, it has no effect, and the item or event is not rerolled.
> - Good luck!

> [!Story points: Campaign Start]-
> When creating a new campaign, begin the game with 1D6+1 story points. These cannot be used during the character creation process of your initial crew.
> 
> - If the campaign’s difficulty mode is Hardcore, subtract 1.
> - If the campaign’s difficulty mode is Insanity, the option is not used. You start with no story points and can never receive them.
> - If this is your first time playing *Five Parsecs from Home*, or you are teaching the game to a new player, go ahead and roll twice and pick the better score.

> [!Story Points: Uses]-
> Story points are a powerful resource used to adjust things in your favour, give you a lucky break, or just tweak the story to work better. In each case, you should create a narrative explanation for how the altered outcome came to pass.
> 
> - Before rolling on any table outside combat, you may spend 1 story point to roll twice and pick the result you prefer.
> - Any time an item, character ability, or similar requires a die roll to work and fails, you may spend 1 story point to have it succeed after all.
> - Any time you have rolled for anything, you may spend 1 story point to roll again, but the new result must be accepted. This works whether you are rolling for your own characters, an enemy action, or something that just happens in the campaign.
> - You may spend 1 story point to obtain 3 credits for the crew. This can only be used once per campaign turn.
> - You may spend 1 story point to obtain +3 XP for any one character. This can only be used once per campaign turn.
> - You may spend 1 story point to take an additional campaign action with any crew member. This can only be used once per campaign turn.

> [!The Stars of the Story]-
> Sometimes story points just aren’t enough. Some players are going to relish going into an overwhelming fight with one crew member, armed with a gun, a confident attitude, and a pack of gum. Others will feel dejected that the dice just ended their campaign. How you feel about things depends on your attitude to games, but here are some options for when the dice start to go against you. You may employ each **ONCE** per campaign.
> 
> Write each option on a separate index card and when an option has been used, remove it for the rest of the campaign, however long it lasts. To gain new uses, you have to start completely from scratch, or have accomplished. If this sort of thing doesn’t feel grim and gritty enough for your style of campaign, feel free to ignore it. Note that if your campaign’s difficulty mode is Insanity, these options are **NOT** available. You are on your own!
> 
> - **It’s time to go!** The crew may immediately end a battle, with all remaining characters escaping from the fight.
> - **Looked worse than it was!** Ignore a roll on the Injury Table. The character recovers immediately.
> - **Did you ever meet my mate?** Add a new character to your team immediately, even mid-battle. Place the model within 6” of any battlefield edge. They can act immediately.
> - **Lucky shot!** If a character just missed a shot, turn it into a hit. Only applies to a single shot, even if the weapon rolls multiple attack dice.
> - **Rainy day fund!** Immediately add 1D6+5 credits

If you want to:
> [!Starting in the Gutter]-
> Use these options for the full “zero to hero” experience. You can use one, two, or all three, depending on what fits your story.
> 
> - When creating your crew, begin with only three Low-Tech Weapons rolls and your choice of a Gear or Gadget roll. You receive any items gained from the character creation tables as normal. You do not receive any free Military/Hi-Tech rolls, and do not receive the normal 1 credit per crew member.
> - In a campaign with a standard crew size of 6, begin with only 3 crew.
> - Begin the game without a ship. You’ll have to scrape together the cash to purchase one or take a sizeable loan. 




