
> [!Your reputation develops]-
> At the start of every third campaign turn, add +1 story point.

---

> [!Invasion!?]-
> > [!Flee invasion...if applicable]-
> > Sometimes war comes to even peaceful planets… and you don’t want to get caught in the middle of it. If previous campaign play has told you this world is being Invaded, you must attempt to flee. Roll 2D6. A score of 8+ is required to get safely off-world.
> > 
> > - **If the roll fails**, there’s no time during your World step to do anything except Assign Equipment before proceeding to the “Battle” section of the rules, where you MUST fight an [[Invasion Battle]].
> > - **If you make the roll, or if you survive the Invasion Mission**, you make it off the world and travel to a new planet, following the usual steps. No payment, purchases, or Campaign Events take place while you flee, but you may roll up a Character Event.
> > 
> > **If you don’t have the 5 credits needed for fuel:** you can sell off gear at a loss (receiving 1 credit per two items sold), or abandon the ship and take evacuation passage, as below.
> > 
> > **If you lack a ship:** you flee on an evacuation ship. You lose all credits you do have, plus 1D6 items from your Stash and equipment (chosen by you), used to pay for bribes, losses, and things left behind.
> > 
> > Regardless of how you leave, all rivals, patrons, and other people known to your crew on this world are lost. You’re not the only ones who needed to relocate in a hurry.
> 
> > [!Check for faction fleeing...if applicable]-
> > If the world is invaded, Factions typically flee off-world or dissolve. Once you know where you are ending up, roll 1D6 for each Faction with a Power of 4 or less:
> > 
> > - If the roll is **below their Power**, they flee to the same world but suffer -1 Power and -1 Influence (to a minimum of 1 each).
> > - If the roll is **equal to or higher than their Power**, the Faction is destroyed in the invasion or scatters to the winds. Either way, they are not a factor any longer.
> > 
> > If any Faction has a Power of 5+, they will instead help fight it out. Each such Faction adds +1 to the Galactic War Progress table. If the world is reclaimed, such Factions suffer -2 Power but gain +1 Influence. Generate two new Factions when the war ends.
> 

> [!Decide Whether to Travel]-
> Each campaign turn takes place in a single star system. At the beginning of a turn, you may always decide to leave behind the current planet. This essentially allows you a fresh start on a new world, which may be beneficial if you’ve made a lot of people angry.
> 
> - **If you have a ship**, it costs 5 credits (fuel and other costs) to travel to a new world. If you do not have the money, you are stuck until you do. If you do opt to travel, roll once on the Starship Travel Event Table below.
> 
> - **Crews without a ship** may pay for commercial passage at a cost of 1 credit per crew member. You cannot carry any packages or other deliverable cargo while doing so, but may bring all of your personal belongings. When traveling commercially, do not roll for Starship Travel Event.
> 
> Traveling does not “take time” in the campaign. Injured characters do not recover while traveling, for example, unless indicated by a specific event.
> 
> Note that you may roll up the characteristics of a new world, but can opt not to travel to it. If so, you must wait until next campaign turn to plot a course for a new system or, if you don’t have a ship, see if a shuttle is going somewhere more pleasant.
> 
> You may opt to return to a world you’ve played on before, reinstating all patrons and rivals that were left behind, so if you would consider returning to a world, keep a record.
> 
> > [!Emergency Take-off]-
> > If you insist on traveling while your ship is damaged, your ship suffers 3D6 Hull Points of damage as the drive vents super-heated plasma throughout the vessel.
> 
> > [!Starship Travel Events Table]-
> > Roll D100 and apply the event listed. In some rare cases, an event may not line up well with the ongoing story. If so, you can often change the narration of what is happening, while retaining the mechanical effects. Several events cause the loss of ship Hull Points. This affects your ability to take off from planets, as discussed on page 59.
> > 
> > > [!1–7 Asteroids]-
> > > Rocky debris everywhere, maybe from a recent collision? If you wish to avoid it, roll 1D6, requiring a 5+ to chart a safe path. If successful, roll again on this table.
> > > To go through the field, select a crew member and roll 1D6+Savvy three times, requiring a 4+ to succeed each time.
> > > Each failed roll inflicts 1D6 Hull Point damage to the ship.
> > 
> > > [!8–12 Navigation trouble]-
> > > Is this place even on the star maps? Lose 1 story point as you drift through empty space, then roll again on this table.
> > > If your ship is currently suffering from Hull Point damage, and you roll this event, a random crew member must roll on the Injury Table, as system failures cause life support malfunctions across the vessel.
> > 
> > > [!13–17 Raided]-
> > > Your vessel catches the eye of some pirates. Intimidation might work: Select a crew member and roll 1D6+Savvy. A 6+ is required to avoid conflict.
> > > 
> > > Otherwise, set up a battle in cramped territory, using the [[Criminal Elements]] Encounter Table.
> > > Enemy numbers are determined by rolling 3D6, picking the highest die (with campaign crew size 5, roll 2D6 and pick highest; with campaign crew size 4, roll 1D6). Add the numbers indicated in the enemy table, +1 extra figure.
> > > 
> > > There is no objective. If you drive them off, they flee back to their ship. If you lose, you lose all credits and everything in your Stash, though you can keep the ship.
> > > 
> > > If you win, you get the normal rewards for winning an Opportunity mission, plus a bonus roll on the Loot Table. 
> > > 
> > > Note that this battle is an ‘out of sequence’ encounter, and does not count as the main Battle stage for the campaign turn.
> > 
> > > [!18–25 Deep space wreckage]-
> > > You find an old wreck drifting through empty space. Scanning it, you get 2 rolls on the [[Gear Subtable]]. Both items are damaged and need to be Repaired.
> > 
> > > [!26–29 Drive trouble]-
> > > It’s not supposed to make that sound.
> > > 
> > > Select 3 crew members and have each roll 1D6+Savvy.
> > > 
> > > A 6+ is required for success. For each failure, you are grounded on the next world for one campaign turn while the drive is reset. Taking off before the drive is reset inflicts 2D6 Hull Point damage to the ship.
> > 
> > > [!30–38 Down-time]-
> > > It’s a long time to just sit here.
> > > 
> > > Select a crew member of choice and add +1 XP. The crew has time to do maintenance tasks, and can Repair 1 damaged item with no roll required.
> > 
> > > [!39–44 Distress call]-
> > > “This is Licensed Trader Cyberwolf”.
> > > 
> > > If you come to their aid, roll 1D6.
> > > - 1: The ship’s drive must have detonated moments after you received the signal. Your ship is struck by a wave of debris as you approach, suffering 1D6+1 Hull Point damage.
> > > - 2: You only find drifting wreckage.
> > > - 3-4: You can rescue a crew member. Treat this as the Escape Pod event.
> > > - 5-6: You arrive in time to help save the ship from a drive malfunction. Select a crew member and roll 1D6+Savvy. A 7+ is required to succeed, but you may make three attempts. If you succeed, the jubilant crew give you a bunch of stuff. Roll three times on the gear loot table. If you fail, the drive detonates, and your ship is damaged as if you had rolled a 1 on this subtable.
> > 
> > > [!45–50 Patrol ship]-
> > > A Unity patrol vessel hails you.
> > > 
> > > Roll 1D6-3 twice. Each die that scores above a 0 results in that number of items being confiscated as contraband. You can give them any items carried or in your Stash. Due to the military presence, the next world you visit cannot be Invaded.
> > 
> > > [!51–53 Cosmic phenomenon]-
> > > A crew member sees a strange manifestation in space. When they ask around, nobody else saw anything, and the ship’s computers confirm nothing was there.
> > > 
> > > The crew member adds +1 Luck (if they are able). This event can only ever happen once in a campaign. Treat as nothing happening, if it happens again.
> > > 
> > > If you have a Precursor in the crew, they predict it’s a good omen. Add +1 story point as well.
> > 
> > > [!54–60 Escape pod]-
> > > You find an escape pod drifting through space. If you opt to rescue them, roll 1D6.
> > > 
> > > - 1: They’re a wanted criminal. If you let them go when you arrive on the next world, they might do you a favour later. The next time you make a new Rival, roll 4+ on 1D6 to immediately remove the Rivals from the campaign. If you turn them in, claim 1D6 credits, but get a Rival from their old gang.
> > > - 2-3: They reward you with 1D3 credits and a roll on the Loot Table when you arrive on the nearest world.
> > > - 4: They have nothing to pay you with, but do have some interesting information. Add 1 Quest Rumor and 1 story point.
> > > - 5: They are willing to join your crew. Roll up a new character, but they come with no equipment at all. If you don’t want to hire them, they just leave at the next world.
> > > - 6: As entry 5, but the character begins play with 10 XP as yet unspent.
> > 
> > > [!61–66 Accident]-
> > > A crew member gets Injured while doing a routine maintenance task. They must rest up for one campaign turn to recover from the Injury, and one item they carry is damaged.
> > 
> > > [!67–75 Travel-time]-
> > > Local conditions force you to jump to the very edge of the system and approach under standard drives. Any Injured crew may rest for one campaign turn.
> > 
> > > [!76–85 Uneventful trip]-
> > > A lot of time playing cards and cleaning guns.
> > > 
> > > You can Repair one damaged item.
> > 
> > > [!86–91 Time to reflect]-
> > > How is the story unfolding? What did it all mean?
> > > 
> > > Add +1 story point.
> > 
> > > [!92–95 Time to read a book]-
> > > 
> > > There’s time to sit, have a read, and maybe even indulge in a bit of education.
> > > 
> > > Roll 1D6. 
> > > On a 1-2, a random crew member earns +3 XP. 
> > > On a 3-4, a random crew member earns +2 XP and a second random crew member earns +1 XP. On a 5-6, three random crew each earn +1 XP.
> > 
> > > [!96–100 Locked in the library data by night]-
> > > 
> > > Pouring over old records and fragments of data, the captain has unearthed some intriguing information about the sector of space you are heading into.
> > > 
> > > You can roll up the planetary info (problems, conveniences, licensing requirements) for three worlds and select which you wish to visit, but due to fuel limitations, you must visit one of the three generated. 
> > > 
> > > All three generated worlds remain in the campaign, and can be visited later.
> 
> > [!New World Arrival Steps]-
> > 
> > > [!Check for rivals]-
> > > Any rivals you have will roll 1D6. On a 4+, they opt to follow you; otherwise, they remain behind.
> > 
> > > [!Dismiss Patrons]-
> > > All Patrons remain behind unless they are Persistent.
> > > 
> > > They do remain should you revisit this planet
> > 
> > > [!Check for Licensing Requirements]-
> > > Roll 1D6. On a 5-6, the world requires a Freelancer License to perform Patron jobs. Roll a further 1D6 to determine the cost in credits. Once purchased, the license remains in effect for perpetuity, even if you return to the world later.
> > > 
> > > You may attempt to obtain a forged License. Select a crew member and roll 1D6+Savvy. If the score is 6 or higher, you obtain the License for free. If the roll is a 1 before modifiers, add a Rival on this world, as local law enforcement, crime bosses, or business cartels take a dim view of your actions. Only one attempt is permitted.
> > 
> > > [!World Traits: Wild Galaxies]-
> > > Roll D100 twice on the following table to determine the traits that apply to the world. Any visibility restrictions are rolled at the start of each campaign turn. If scenario conditions apply a second visibility restriction, use the shortest.
> > > 
> > > > [!Krag & Skulker Worlds]-
> > > > **Krag Colony Worlds** 
> > > > Krag colonies are rare. If you wish to visit one, it will always have the Busy Markets and Vendetta system World Traits. 
> > > > Adding Krag colonies to your known worlds list costs 1 story point. Once known, you may opt to visit a known Krag colony during the Travel Steps during any campaign turn.
> > > > 
> > > > **Skulker Colony Worlds** 
> > > > There are relatively few Skulker colonies since travellers tend to just settle in among existing settlements. Skulker home worlds always have the Adventurous population trait, plus a second trait rolled normally. The Alien species restricted world trait is treated as no result.
> > > 
> > > > [!1–3 Haze]-
> > > > During battle, visibility is reduced to 1D6+8”.
> > > 
> > > > [!4–6 Overgrown]-
> > > > When setting up the table, you must add 1D6+2 individual plant features or 1D3 areas of vegetation (roughly 3-5” across).
> > > 
> > > > [!7–8 Warzone]-
> > > > When setting up the table, you must add 1D3 ruined buildings or craters to the table.
> > > 
> > > > [!9–10 Heavily enforced]-
> > > > When fighting opponents from the [[Criminal Elements]] Encounter Table, the number encountered is reduced by 1. When rolling to see if they become Rivals, only roll a single die as normal.
> > > 
> > > > [!11–12 Rampant crime]-
> > > > When fighting opponents from the [[Criminal Elements]] encounter list, add 1 to the number encountered.
> > > 
> > > > [!13–14 Invasion risk]-
> > > > Add +1 to all Invasion rolls.
> > > 
> > > > [!15–16 Imminent invasion]-
> > > > Add +2 to all Invasion rolls and if the world is invaded, rolls for war progress are at -1.
> > > 
> > > > [!17–18 Lacks starship facilities]-
> > > > You cannot spend more than 3 credits per campaign turn on starship Repairs.
> > > 
> > > > [!19–20 Easy recruiting]-
> > > > Add +1 to the roll when Recruiting.
> > > 
> > > > [!21–22 Medical science]-
> > > > The cost for accelerated medical care is only 3 credits per character.
> > > 
> > > > [!23–24 Technical knowledge]-
> > > > Add +1 to all Repair attempts.
> > > 
> > > > [!25–26 Opportunities]-
> > > > Add +1 to the roll when searching for Patrons.
> > > 
> > > > [!27–29 Booming economy]-
> > > > When rolling for post-battle credit rewards, any 1 on the dice is rerolled until it shows a score other than 1.
> > > 
> > > > [!30–32 Busy markets]-
> > > > Each campaign turn, you may spend 2 credits once to roll on the Trade Table (p.79).
> > > 
> > > > [!33–34 Bureaucratic mess]-
> > > > When attempting to leave, you must roll 2D6. On a 2-4, you are delayed and cannot leave this campaign turn without a bribe equal to the roll in credits. You may try again next campaign turn.
> > > 
> > > > [!35–36 Restricted education]-
> > > > You must roll 6+ to be approved for Advanced Training on this world.
> > > 
> > > > [!37–38 Expensive education]-
> > > > The fee to enroll in Advanced Training is 3 credits.
> > > 
> > > > [!39–41 Travel restricted]-
> > > > No more than one crew member may take the Explore option each campaign turn.
> > > 
> > > > [!42–43 Unity safe sector]-
> > > > The world cannot be Invaded.
> > > 
> > > > [!44–46 Gloom]-
> > > > In battle, maximum visibility is restricted to 1D6+6”.
> > > 
> > > > [!47–48 Bot manufacturing]-
> > > > All Bot upgrades are 1 credit cheaper.
> > > 
> > > > [!49–51 Fuel refinery]-
> > > > Traveling from this world costs only 3 credits.
> > > 
> > > > [!52–53 Alien species restricted]-
> > > > Roll 1D10 to determine which species is restricted:
> > > > - 1 Engineer
> > > > - 2-4 K’Erin
> > > > - 5 Soulless
> > > > - 6 Precursor
> > > > - 7-9 Feral
> > > > - 10 Swift
> > > > Characters of this type cannot be hired here (count as baseline Humans instead), and cannot undertake any crew jobs. They may participate in combat normally.
> > > 
> > > > [!54–55 Weapon licensing]-
> > > > Any weapon obtained through the Trade Table or purchased outright costs +1 credit.
> > > 
> > > > [!56–57 Import restrictions]-
> > > > You cannot sell any items on this world.
> > > 
> > > > [!58–59 Military outpost]-
> > > > Add +2 to Invasion rolls. Add +2 when checking for war progress.
> > > 
> > > > [!60–62 Dangerous]-
> > > > When rolling on the [[Roving Threats]] Encounter Table, increase the number of opponents by +1.
> > > 
> > > > [!63–64 Shipyards]-
> > > > The cost of all Ship Components is reduced by 2 credits.
> > > 
> > > > [!65–67 Barren]-
> > > > No plant features can be used on the battlefield.
> > > 
> > > > [!68–69 Vendetta system]-
> > > > Opponents become your Rivals on a roll of 1 or 2.
> > > 
> > > > [!70–72 Free trade zone]-
> > > > One crew member per campaign turn can roll twice when using the Trade Table, and choose either result.
> > > 
> > > > [!73–74 Corporate state]-
> > > > +2 when rolling to find a Patron. Patrons are always Corporations. Failing a mission means being blacklisted and you cannot get Patrons here again.
> > > 
> > > > [!75–76 Adventurous population]-
> > > > When successfully Recruiting, you may roll up one additional character and then choose who to hire.
> > > 
> > > > [!77–79 Frozen]-
> > > > Any character making a Dash may opt to slide. They move 1D6” in a straight line, and must move the full distance. If they collide with anything, they – and any character they collide with – are knocked 1” in a random direction and become Stunned.
> > > 
> > > > [!80–81 Flat]-
> > > > Do not place any hills or raised ground on the battlefield.
> > > 
> > > > [!82–84 Fuel shortage]-
> > > > The cost to travel from this world is raised by 1D3 credits. You may roll each campaign turn.
> > > 
> > > > [!85–86 Reflective dust]-
> > > > All Laser, Beam, or Blast weapons are -1 to Hit at ranges exceeding 9”.
> > > 
> > > > [!87–89 High cost]-
> > > > Your crew size counts as being 2 higher for the purpose of Upkeep costs.
> > > 
> > > > [!90–91 Interdiction]-
> > > > You are only approved to stay for 1D3 campaign turns. To extend your stay, you must obtain a license. Roll 2D6, requiring an 8+.
> > > 
> > > > [!92–93 Null zone]-
> > > > No teleportation device of any type works.
> > > 
> > > > [!94–96 Crystals]-
> > > > Place 2D6 crystals on the battlefield. If you don’t have any, use rocks.
> > > 
> > > > [!97–100 Fog]-
> > > > All shots beyond 8” are -1 to Hit.
> > > 
> > 
> > > [!Fringe World Strife]-
> > > Fringe space is a confusing, chaotic, and often violent place. While some worlds – especially those patrolled by Unity naval forces – exist in relative peace and quiet for prolonged periods of time, the sort of places a freelancer crew visits are frequently less stable. Use the following rules to make the Fringe feel more anarchic and wild as you travel deeper into uncontrolled space. This may not be suitable for every campaign, so you may opt to use it for some systems you visit and not for others.
> > > 
> > > If using this system, when arriving on a new world, roll 1D6. A roll of 4+ indicates the world is Unstable. You may opt to use a 5+ roll if you prefer a less chaotic environment.
> > > 
> > > > [!Instability]-
> > > > An Unstable world always maintains an Instability score which is tracked by the player. When you arrive on the world, it begins at +1 Instability.
> > > > 
> > > > During the Invasion step of every campaign turn, add 1D6 to the total. Adjust the total by an additional +1 for every active Rival on this world. Subtract -1 if you completed a Patron job this campaign turn. Subtract -1 if you Held the Field against a Roving Threat this campaign turn.
> > > > 
> > > > If this causes Instability to reach or exceed 10, make a D100 roll on the table below, reduce the Instability score by the amount listed, and apply the listed effect:
> > > > 
> > > > ### Fringe World Strife
> > > > 
> > > > > [!01–10 Hooligans]-
> > > > > -5 Instability
> > > > > While trying to go about your business, a bunch of ’roided-up hooligans cause a riot. You cannot perform any Explore or Trade crew actions during the next campaign turn.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!11–24 Criminal Gang]-
> > > > > -5 Instability
> > > > > Roll once on the [[Criminal Elements]] encounter subtable. This gang has set up shop threatening local businesses. Until you clear them out, all post-battle pay-outs on this world are reduced by 1 Credit. Instead of taking another job, you can go after the gang at any time. No roll is required to find them. Set up a Fight Off mission. Add 1 Specialist and an Enemy Boss [[Unique Individual]] to the enemy force. Receive 1 Story Point if you kill the boss in Brawling combat.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!25–36 Enemy arrival]-
> > > > > -5 Instability
> > > > > A Converted Infiltrator squad has arrived on the planet. To go after them, use the Track crew action, similar to tracking down a Rival. If you find them, you may fight them as your job for this campaign turn. Set up a Fight Off mission . The enemy squad has a +1 Combat Skill and includes 1 additional Specialist. Until the squad has been destroyed, you must check for Invasion every campaign turn.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!37–46 Heating Up]-
> > > > > -3 Instability
> > > > > Tensions are getting out of hand, and people want to scrap. Add a Rival randomly selected from the [[Criminal Elements]] subtable.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!47–54 Sabotage]-
> > > > > -7 Instability
> > > > > During a running gun battle, your ship was caught in the crossfire and took a beating. Your ship takes 1D6+1 points of hull damage.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!55–66 Raiders]-
> > > > > -7 Instability
> > > > > Next campaign turn, you will be attacked by scavengers. Resolve this as a Rival attack Raid scenario. Roll 1D6 to determine the attackers:
> > > > > 1-2: Raiders
> > > > > 3: Psychos
> > > > > 4-5: Pirates
> > > > > 6: Planetary Nomads
> > > > > Add +2 to the enemy numbers.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!67–72 Crackdown]-
> > > > > -10 Instability
> > > > > The authorities decide to make examples of the crew. Unless you leave next campaign turn, roll three D6 in the Upkeep step, and discard every die rolling a 5 or a 6. Add the remaining dice together and pay that many credits in fines or have your ship confiscated.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!73–86 Economic Collapse]-
> > > > > -10 Instability
> > > > > The economy has fallen to pieces. For now, you cannot take Trade actions, and all mission payouts are -1 Credit. When collecting your payment after each mission, roll 1D6, adding +1 if you completed a Patron job, and +4 if you finished a Quest. On a result of 6+, the economic malaise is over.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!87–94 Invasion Imminent]-
> > > > > NA Instability
> > > > > An alien invasion force is en route, and everyone is scrambling to get away. After the next campaign turn, the world is automatically invaded. Roll 1D6 to determine who is coming:
> > > > > 1-2: Converted Acquisition
> > > > > 3: Abductor Raiders
> > > > > 4-5: Swarm Brood
> > > > > 6: K’Erin Colonists
> > > > 
> > > > > [!95–100 Civil War]-
> > > > > NA Instability
> > > > > The world erupts in a shooting war next campaign turn. If you opt to remain, you will be caught up in the fighting. Roll twice on the [[Interested Parties]] table. This represents the two sides struggling for control. You may side with either of them at your choice, but once chosen, you cannot switch sides. Each mission will be an Opportunity Mission against the opposing force. Add 2 additional regular enemies and 1 additional Specialist to the enemy force (for a total of 3 additional figures). You receive +1 Credit for each such mission undertaken. During the Check for Galactic War Progress step, roll on the table normally. A result of “Unity Victorious” indicates your faction has won the war. You receive 1D6 Credits in bonus pay (not to exceed the number of missions you have done) and due to your war-hero
> > > > 
> > > > Any result of “NA” means Instability is no longer tracked: The world has bigger problems to worry about!
> > 
> > >[!The Legality of Psionics]-
> > > 
> > > 
> > > **D100 ROLL
> > > 
> > > 
> > >> [!1–25 Outlawed]- 
> > > >If Psionics are illegal, a Psionic does not run any risk of detection unless they actively use a power during combat. If they do, planetary authorities (or another party interested in suppressing psionic rights) may take action. If a Psionic uses a power during combat, roll D6 during the post-game step ‘1. Resolve Rival Status’, and consult the table below:
> > > >
> > > >**Psionic Usage | Psionics Detected**
> > > >
> > > >- **A character used a psionic power once during the battle**  
> > >   Roll a 1.
> > > >
> > >> - **A character used psionic powers multiple times**  
> > >   Roll a 1-2.
> > > >
> > >> If the indicated result is rolled, a band of Psi-hunters are now on your tail. Roll D6 again to determine the exact type:
> > > >
> > > >**1D6 Roll | rivals | Notes**
> > > >- **1-2 | Bounty Hunters**  
> > >   From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable
> > > >- **3 | Vigilantes**  
> > >   From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable
> > > >- **4-5 | Enforcers**  
> > >   From the [[Hired Muscle]] subtable
> > > >- **6 | Colonial Militia**  
> > >   From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable
> > >>
> > > >Note on your record sheet that these rivals are Psi-hunters in addition to their normal type. They are subject to the following adjustments:
> > >> 
> > >> - Seize the Initiative rolls against them must be taken at a -2 modifier.
> > > >- After generating the number and nature of enemies, add 1 additional Specialist enemy to their force.
> > > >- Psi-hunters add +1 to their attack roll when shooting at or Brawling with a Psionic character.
> > > 
> >  >>[!26–55 Highly Unusual]-
> > >> 
> > >> If you are on a world where “Psionics will draw attention,” there is a chance that psionic usage will result in reinforcements showing up. Every time you use a psionic power, if two or more of the Projection roll dice show 6s, the blast of energy has caused a stir, and the enemy is going to call for reinforcements.
> > >> 
> > >> Reinforcements will arrive at the end of the next round unless you have cleared the table of opponents by then. Roll three D6 and check each die for a result on the table below:
> > >> 
> > >> **1D6 Roll | Reinforcements**
> > >> 
> > >> - **1 | None**  
> > >> - **2-5 | A basic enemy**  
> > >> - **6 | An enemy Specialist**  
> > >> 
> > >> *Example:* If the result was 1, 2, and 5, the 1 results in no reinforcements, but the 2 and the 5 both result in a basic enemy, so TWO basic enemies show up as reinforcements.
> > >> 
> > >> Note that it is theoretically possible to roll three 1s for the reinforcements. In this case, while attention was drawn to the battle, potential reinforcements thought better of getting involved.
> > >> 
> > >> Reinforcements can arrive only once in each battle and will appear at the centre of the enemy table edge.
> > > 
> > > - **56-100 Who Cares?**  
> > >   Psionics are a common enough sight that they do not result in any unusual effects.
> > 
> > > [!Generate factions]-
> > > When creating a new world, generate 1D3+1 Factions as well. These represent the dominant power groups that are at odds with each other on the world. While numerous other groups will exist, they are assumed to be secondary to the Factions you create.
> > > 
> > > For each Faction, go through the process below, beginning with a D100 roll for Faction type:
> > > 
> > > | D100 | **FACTION TYPE**        | **INFL.** | **POWER** |
> > > |------|-------------------------|-----------|-----------|
> > > | 01-10| Charismatic leader      | +0        | +0        |
> > > | 11-30| Merchant cartel         | +1        | +0        |
> > > | 31-50| Criminal enterprise     | +0        | +1        |
> > > | 51-60| Advocacy group          | +0        | +0        |
> > > | 61-75| Political movement      | +0        | +1        |
> > > | 76-90| Religious movement      | +1        | +0        |
> > > | 91-00| Secretive organization  | +1        | +1        |
> > > 
> > > Faction Type gives the broad narrative lean of the organization. The categories are quite wide and can encompass almost anything you can think of within each type. Bear in mind that Fringe society is quite alien to ours, and have issues and concerns that may appear quite abstract to us.
> > > 
> > > Each Faction is rated for two qualities: Influence and Power. Roll 1D3+1 for each of these qualities, and note them down, applying any modifiers from the Faction type.
> > > 
> > > - **Influence** can be seen as a measure of practical size. Factions with major Influence have a large membership (or a smaller number of more powerful members), assets, resources, and public recognition.
> > > - **Power** is the mailed fist of the Faction, indicating how well it can take action against other Factions, whether through political, economic, or clandestine means. Of course, in Fringe space, “clandestine” can often mean “open gun battle”.
> > > ## Faction Loyalty
> > > 
> > > The relationship between a Faction and a crew is measured by a Loyalty score. As a crew accumulates Loyalty, they gain more trust with the Faction and are viewed as a reliable asset (or at least a useful one). Your crew has a separate Loyalty score for each Faction.
> > > 
> > > If you began the campaign on this world, you may choose one Faction to start at Loyalty 1. The rest begin at Loyalty 0. If you are off-worlders, all Loyalties begin at 0.
> > 

---

> [!World steps]-
> ##
> > [!Upkeep and Ship Repairs]-
> > 
> > > [!Upkeep Costs]-
> > > Each campaign turn, you must pay Upkeep for your crew, representing pay checks, booze, food, and other routine expenses. Upkeep costs 1 credit if you have 4-6 crew, and +1 additional credit per crew member past 6.
> > > 
> > > Alternatively, you may sell equipment to pay for Upkeep. Each item sold provides 1 credit towards Upkeep.
> > > 
> > > For each credit you are short, one crew member will refuse to do any jobs for you this campaign turn. Crew members in Sick Bay do not count towards the Upkeep cost. You may also opt to kick out any crew member at this stage. If you do, you may return one item they carry to your Stash, but they take the rest of their equipment with them.
> > 
> > > [!LOANS: WHO DO YOU OWE?]-
> > > 
> > >> [! The Loan]-
> > > >
> > > >The base value of the loan will be the cost of the ship in question. Whether during character creation or a loan taken during play, the following adjustments are made:
> > >> - Unity Program loans must add +5 credits to for paperwork.
> > >> - Free Trader or Suspicious Character loans must add +1D6 credits due to personal whims.
> > >> Roll on the table below to determine who is willing to extend a loan to you.
> > > >
> > > >| D100 Result | Loan Originator           | Notes                                                                                                                                                           |
> > > | ----------- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> > > | 01-15       | Unity Program             | Unity-funded organizations will sponsor starship loans for independent economic development.                                                                    |
> > > | 16-25       | Sector Government Program | Multi-system governments often view private traders as a valuable addition to local trade.                                                                      |
> > > | 26-60       | Corporate                 | Funding freelancers can be a viable investment (or a way to write off cash as “business investments” if said freelancer turns out to be less than law-abiding). |
> > > | 61-85       | Free Trader               | A private loan originating from one of the free traders who made it big.                                                                                        |
> > > | 86-100      | Suspicious Character      | Hey, you want a ship? I’ll hook you up with a ship. Yeah, these terms are standard, no need to worry kid. Hey, I like you. Where did you say your family lived? |
> > > 
> > > > [!The Interest Rate]-
> > > >
> > > >Roll D100 on the table below to determine how quickly interest will accrue. Note that, as we are playing a game of space adventure, these numbers do not correlate to how interest rates work in real life (hopefully).
> > > >
> > > >After making your payment for the turn, increase the amount owed according to the ‘Low Interest’ column if you owe 30 credits or less, or the ‘High Interest’ column if you owe 31 credits or more.
> > > >
> > > >| D100 Result | Interest Rate  | Low Interest | High Interest           | Notes                                                                     |
> > >  | ----------- | -------------- | ------------ | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> > > | 01-10       | Very Cheap     | +1           | +1                      | A Free Trader loan treats this result as Cheap instead.                   |
> > > | 11-40       | Cheap          | +1           | +2                      | -                                                                         |
> > > | 41-70       | Average        | +1           | +3                      | -                                                                         |
> > > | 71-85       | Expensive      | +2           | +3                      | A Suspicious Character loan treats this result as Very Expensive instead. |
> > > | 86-100      | Very Expensive | +2           | +1D6 (rolled each turn) | A Unity Program loan treats this result as Expensive instead.             |
> > > 
> > > > [!Enforcement Thresholds]-
> > > >Roll on the table below to determine at what points the loan originator will attempt to collect on your loan. Note that, in some cases, the amount of money financed would be above the first Threshold you will need to supply enough cash up front to reduce the amount below Threshold 1.
> > > >
> > > >| D100   | Aggressiveness  | Threshold 1 | Threshold 2 |
> > >> | ------ | --------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
> > > | 01-10  | Very Casual     | 75          | 90          |
> > > | 11-20  | Casual          | 65          | 80          |
> > > | 21-45  | Moderate        | 60          | 75          |
> > > | 46-75  | Aggressive      | 55          | 70          |
> > > | 76-100 | Very Aggressive | 50          | 65          |
> > > 
> > > > [!Loan enforcement]-
> > > >
> > > >Each loan will have two thresholds as shown in the table above. Use the thresholds that match the aggressiveness of your ship’s loan arrangement. When your debt crosses either of the two thresholds, make a D100 roll on the Enforcement table below to check the method of enforcement. 
> > > >
> > > >Additionally, for every 5 credits of debt beyond the second threshold, make another D100 enforcement roll.
> > > >
> > > >| Method                           | Unity Program | Local Sector | Corporate          | Free Trader    | Suspicious Character |
> > > >| -------------------------------- | ------------- | ------------ | ------------------ | -------------- | -------------------- |
> > > | **[[Fees]]**                     | 01-20         | 01-20        | 01-30              | 01-15          | 01-25                |
> > > | **[[Intergalactic Debtors Agency]]**               | 21-35         | 21-35        | 31-55              | 16-40          | 26-40                |
> > > | **[[Collectors, Fringe-style]]** | 36-45         | 36-50        | 56-70              | 41-65          | 41-75                |
> > > | **[[Temporary Seizure]]**        | 46-75         | 51-75        | 71-85              | 66-80          | 76-85                |
> > > | **[[Permanent Seizure]]**        | 76-100        | 76-100       | 86-100             | 81-100         | 86-100               |
> > > | **[[Collection Squads]]**        | Unity grunts  | Enforcers    | Corporate security | Bounty hunters | Bounty hunters       |
> > > 
> > > > [!Fight it out]-
> > > > 
> > > > When someone comes to seize your ship, you can choose to fight it out: 
> > > > 
> > > > - Set up a battle against Enforcers, adding +2 basic enemies to their number. 
> > > > - Set up in the centre of the table, at least 12” from a table edge. The enemy arrives from two randomly selected battlefield edges, with their forces split evenly between the two edges.
> > > > - Then randomly determine which table edge you must escape across.
> > > > - If at least one crew member escapes the battle, you can leave off-world. The warrant remains in place, and an Enforcer Rival is added to your roster.
> > 
> > > [!Ship Repairs]-
> > > If your ship has sustained Hull Point damage, you may repair 1 point automatically at this stage. You may also spend money to restore Hull Points. Every credit spent on repairs will fix 1 point of damage. You may spend any amount of credits you like.
> > 
> > > [!Pay for Medical Care]-
> > > If you have crew in Sick Bay, you may pay 4 credits to remove 1 campaign turn from a single character’s recovery time. This can be done as often as you can afford, thanks to modern medicine. Bot characters can also be repaired through the same process at the same cost.
> > 
> > > [!Natural Healing and Bot Repair]-
> > > Characters in Sick Bay and Bots needing repairs now mark off one campaign turn from their duration. If this was their last campaign turn in Sick Bay, they can re-join the crew for battle but cannot perform a task this campaign turn.
> 
> > [!Assign and Resolve Crew Tasks]-
> > Every campaign turn, each crew member can engage in one task, including looking for new crew members or patrons, covering the crew’s trail from rivals or actively tracking them, exploring, training, trading, or repairing broken items. Each crew member that isn’t in Sick Bay can take on a task now.
> > #### Captain only free task (even if in sickbay)
> > 
> > > [!Faction Jobs]-
> > > Like patrons, Factions often have a need for things to get done, and they would not hire a freelancer crew unless this required a certain degree of violence.
> > > 
> > > Before taking your crew tasks, each turn your captain may check for a Faction job. This does not count as a crew task and can be done even if your captain is in Sick Bay, though not if they are currently absent from the crew for other reasons.
> > > 
> > > 1. Select a Faction you would like to work for and roll 1D6.
> > > 2. If the roll is equal to or below the Influence score of the Faction, they have a job available. You can generate all details before deciding whether to take it or not.
> > > 
> > > Faction jobs are treated as a patron job, but do not roll for Danger Pay or Benefits. Factions only ask if there is a serious need: Add 1 additional standard opponent to the enemy force you will face.
> > > ## Affiliated Patron Jobs
> > > 
> > > Many patron jobs will be affiliated with a Faction either directly or indirectly. Whenever you receive a job from a new patron, roll a D6:
> > > 
> > > - **1-4:** It is a normal job.
> > > - **5-6:** The patron is affiliated with a randomly selected Faction. They may be a subsidiary, a friendly organization, or acting under influence.
> > > 
> > > Affiliated patron jobs are still patron jobs and are less likely to increase your Loyalty rating with the Faction in question, but they do count as being a successful Faction job for the purpose of any post-game resolution mechanics.
> > 
> > You may assign up to two characters to any one task. A character may opt to simply sit around on the ship and do nothing if desired.
> > ## Available Tasks
> > 
> > > [!Find a Patron: Go look for someone to hire the crew.]-
> > > 
> > > To find a patron, roll 1D6 and add the number of crew members who are looking. If the crew has an old patron among their contacts, each patron adds +1 to the roll. After rolling, you may opt to spend credits. Each credit earns a +1 bonus.
> > > 
> > > - **If the result is a 5 or higher:** You’ve found a patron to hire you for a job (see p.83).
> > > - **If the result is a 6 or higher:** You’ve found two patrons, and may choose either job.
> > > 
> > > If you have an existing patron, the first job offer is from them. If two jobs are offered, one will be from an existing patron, and the other from a new patron. After generating all job details, you may opt to turn the job down if you end up not liking it.
> > > 
> > If you are offered more than one Patron job at the same time, you can accept all of them but pay attention to the timeframes. Failure to finish a job in the allotted time counts as a failure.
> > > ## Affiliated Patron Jobs
> > > 
> > > Many patron jobs will be affiliated with a Faction either directly or indirectly. Whenever you receive a job from a new patron, roll a D6:
> > > 
> > > - **1-4:** It is a normal job.
> > > - **5-6:** The patron is affiliated with a randomly selected Faction. They may be a subsidiary, a friendly organization, or acting under influence.
> > > 
> > > Affiliated patron jobs are still patron jobs and are less likely to increase your Loyalty rating with the Faction in question, but they do count as being a successful Faction job for the purpose of any post-game resolution mechanics.
> > 
> > > [!Train: Go to the gun range and the gym.]-
> > > Characters can improve their ability scores with experience pointsience Points]]. This often happens as a reward in the Post-battle stage of the game, but characters can also Train as a task, earning 1 XP. If this means they may make a Character Upgrade (see “experience pointsience and character upgrades]],”), resolve that immediately.
> > 
> > > [!Trade: Try to score some new equipment.]-
> > > For each crew member Trading, roll once on the Trade Table to see what presents itself. You can get additional rolls by spending 3 credits each. At least one crew member must be Trading to permit this expenditure.
> > > 
> > > Armor acquired from a Trade table roll must be selected by the player to be Krag-armour or not. Krag-armour is designed to fit Krag only, although Skulkers and Engineers can wear both Krag and non-Krag armour without modification.
> > 
> > > [!Recruit: Expand your crew.]-
> > > If your crew has fewer than 6 members currently, you can automatically recruit a new character for each crew member sent Recruiting (until you are back to 6 members).
> > > 
> > > If you have 6 or more crew members, roll a D6, adding the number of crew members sent to recruit. A score of 6 or higher allows a new recruit to be added.
> > > 
> > > When adding a new character to your crew, roll on the normal character creation tables as you would when starting a new game but ignore all Credits that would have been awarded normally. Any Rivals are added to your roster immediately. Any Patrons are added to the list known and will award a job offer next turn automatically.
> > > 
> > > Once you have begun a campaign, any time you acquire a new Recruit, you may opt to pay 1 story point or 10 credits to have them be a Psionic, provided you do not currently have one in your crew.
> > 
> > > [!Explore: See the sights around town.]-
> > > Each crew member exploring rolls once on the Exploration Table.
> > 
> > > [!Track: Look for a Rival for a showdown.]-
> > > If you have rivals, you can attempt to Track some of them down. Roll 1D6, adding the number of crew that are Tracking. 
> > > 
> > > - If the result is a 5 or higher, you have located a Rival of your choice, allowing you to fight a battle against them this campaign turn. 
> > > - You may spend credits beforehand to obtain a +1 bonus per credit to the roll.
> > 
> > > [!Repair Your Kit: Try to fix broken items.]-
> > > If you have had items destroyed, you can attempt to Repair them. Roll 1D6 and add the Savvy ability score of the character doing this job. Add +1 if the character is an Engineer. 
> > > 
> > > You may spend credits on parts. Every 1 credit spent before the roll grants a +1 bonus.
> > > 
> > > - **On a 5+**, the item is repaired and is usable again.
> > > - **A natural 1** always fails and means the item is beyond fixing.
> > 
> > > [!Decoy: Help avoid Rivals finding you.]-
> > > When rolling to see if rivals hunt you down, add +1 to the roll for every crew member sent to act as a Decoy.
> > 
> > > [!Finding a Salvage Job]-
> > ]
> > > Looking for a salvage job requires a crew action in the campaign turn. Roll 1D6, and consult the table below:
> > > 
> > > ## 1D6 Roll Salvage Option
> > > 
> > > | ROLL | SALVAGE OPTION |
> > > |------|-----------------|
> > > | 1    | No job          |
> > > | 2-3  | Fee             |
> > > | 4-5  | Salvage job     |
> > > | 6    | Illegal job     |
> > > 
> > > - **No job:** No salvage is available this campaign turn.
> > > - **Fee:** You must pay a 2 Credit (non-refundable) fee to accept the job.
> > > - **Salvage job:** A job is available.
> > > - **Illegal job:** An illegal job is available this campaign turn.
> > > 
> > > You do not have to decide immediately if you will take the job. You can wait until you have finished your campaign actions as usual before deciding.
> > > 
> > > Rival attacks can still attack you, as usual. Any job offered is only available this campaign turn. If you skip it, or are prevented by Rivals, the chance is lost.
> > 
> > > [!Faction Favour: Friends in high places]-
> > > Your captain may try to call in a favour once per campaign turn. This requires a crew task and can only be done by your captain.
> > > 
> > > Roll a D6:
> > > - **If the roll is equal to or below the current Loyalty score,** reduce the Loyalty by the die roll, and select one of the favours listed below. You can choose the favour after rolling.
> > > - **If the roll is higher than the Loyalty score,** nobody has time for you (“…but we do appreciate your business!” Your Loyalty score remains unchanged.
> > > 
> > > ## Faction Favours
> > > 
> > > | FAVOUR               | NOTES                                                                                                                                                        |
> > > |---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> > > | Pulling strings     | Can be used to cancel a Loan enforcement roll (see p.154) or remove an Enforcer, Vigilante, or Bounty Hunter Rival.                                          |
> > > | Monetary help       | Gain Credits equal to the die roll. Add +1 to the score if the sum is used directly to pay off debts or medical expenses.                                     |
> > > | Contact network     | You may either roll up a Patron that offers a job or opt to take a Salvage job (see p.137).                                                                  |
> > > | Arrange a meeting   | Roll up a new crew member using the start-of-campaign process. They will assist you for one mission. If you win, they will offer to join you permanently for a one-time payment of 1D6 Credits. |
> > > | Provide cover       | You cannot be attacked by any Rivals this turn.                                                                                                              |
> > > | Access to information | Gain Quest Clues equal to Influence this turn.                                                                                                               |
> > > 
> 
> > [!Patron Job Offer]-
> > 
> > If you received a job offer from a patron or began the campaign with one, you need to determine the details of the job. As well as who the Patron is, and how long the job will take, these details can include Danger Pay, Benefits, Hazards, and Conditions. Proceed through the following steps using a each table:
> > 
> > > [!Who are they?]-
> > > 
> > > | ROLL | PATRON                | NOTES                                       |
> > > |------|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------|
> > > | 1-2  | Corporation            | +1 to the roll on the Danger Pay.     |
> > > | 3-4  | Local Government       | –                                           |
> > > | 5    | Sector Government      | –                                           |
> > > | 6-7  | Wealthy Individual     | –                                           |
> > > | 8-9  | Private Organization   | –                                           |
> > > | 10   | Secretive Group        | +1 to the roll on the Time Frame Table.     |
> > > 
> > 
> > > [!Danger Pay]-
> > > Next, roll to determine the Danger Pay on offer. This is on top of any normal battle earnings. Unless stated otherwise, it is paid even if the mission fails, but only if the mission is attempted. 
> > > 
> > > Add +1 to the roll if working for a Corporation.
> > > 
> > > | ROLL | DANGER PAY                                                                 |
> > > |------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> > > | 1-4  | +1 credit                                                                    |
> > > | 5-8  | +2 credits                                                                   |
> > > | 9    | +3 credits                                                                   |
> > > | 10+  | +3 credits and roll twice, picking the higher die when rolling for mission pay after the battle. |
> > > 
> > 
> > > [!Time Frame]-
> > > The third step is to determine the Time Frame for the job. This is the number of campaign turns within which you must finish the job. If the job isn’t done when the time runs out, it counts as a failure. Add +1 to the roll if working for a Secretive Group.
> > > 
> > > | ROLL | TIME                                                                  |
> > > |------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> > > | 1-5  | This campaign turn.                                                     |
> > > | 6-7  | This or the next campaign turn.                                         |
> > > | 8-9  | This or the following 2 campaign turns.                                  |
> > > | 10+ | Any time.                                                                |
> > > 
> > 
> > > [!Benefits, Hazards, and Conditions]-
> > > The Patron may offer an additional Benefit, the job may carry an additional Hazard, or there may be Conditions to account for. If you have worked for this Patron before, the Benefit (if any) always remains the same. 
> > > 
> > > Roll 1D10 for each category to see whether Benefits, Hazards, or Conditions apply.
> > > 
> > > | ROLL           | CORPORATION | LOCAL GOVERNMENT | SECTOR GOVERNMENT | WEALTHY INDIVIDUAL | PRIVATE ORGANISATION | SECRETIVE GROUP |
> > > | -------------- | ----------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------------ | -------------------- | --------------- |
> > > | **Benefits**   | 8+          | 8+               | 8+                | 5+                 | 8+                   | 8+              |
> > > | **Hazards**    | 8+          | 8+               | 8+                | 8+                 | 8+                   | 5+              |
> > > | **Conditions** | 5+          | 8+               | 8+                | 8+                 | 8+                   | 8+              |
> > > 
> > > > [!Benefits]-
> > > > 
> > > > Benefits are paid out ONLY if the mission is a success.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!1–2 Fringe Benefit]-
> > > > > Roll on the Loot Table.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!3–4 Connections]-
> > > > > Gain a Rumor.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!5 Company Store]-
> > > > > Roll on the Trade Table.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!6 Health Insurance]-
> > > > > Mark down 2 campaign turns of injury recovery, assigned as you see fit.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!7 Security Team]-
> > > > > Reduce enemy force numbers by 1.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!8–9 Persistent]-
> > > > > Patron remains available if you travel.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!10 Negotiable]-
> > > > > If you accept this job, you may reroll the Danger Pay roll and pick the better of the two rolls.
> > > 
> > > > [!Hazards]-
> > > > 
> > > > > [!1–2 Dangerous Job]-
> > > > > Increase enemy force numbers by +1.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!3–4 Hot Job]-
> > > > > After the job, you will earn an enemy on 1-2 instead of the normal roll of a 1.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!5 VIP]-
> > > > > A random enemy will have +1 Toughness and a final Combat Skill of +2 (regardless of current value).
> > > > 
> > > > > [!6 Veteran Opposition]-
> > > > > Enemy is -1 to panic range.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!7 Low Priority]-
> > > > > Reduce enemy force numbers by 1.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!8–10 Private Transport]-
> > > > > If you have Rivals, they cannot track you this campaign turn.
> > > 
> > > > [!Conditions]-
> > > > 
> > > > > [!1 Vengeful]-
> > > > > If the mission fails, the Patron becomes a Rival.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!2–3 Demanding]-
> > > > > Danger Pay is only upon success.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!4 Small Squad]-
> > > > > You cannot deploy more than 4 crew.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!5 Full Squad]-
> > > > > You must have 6 available crew.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!6 Clean]-
> > > > > You cannot ever have made law enforcement Rivals.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!7–8 Busy]-
> > > > > If the mission is a success, the Patron offers a new job next campaign turn.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!9 One-time Contract]-
> > > > > This Patron cannot be retained as a contact.
> > > > 
> > > > > [!10 Reputation Required]-
> > > > > You must have completed a prior Patron job on this world.
> > > > 
> > 
> > > [!Special Conditions: Patron Jobs Only]-
> > > Conditions marked with an * only apply to your crew, not any enemies encountered.
> > > 
> > > > [!01–05 Collateral damage restriction*]-
> > > > You cannot deploy any weapon with a Shot rating of 3 or higher, or a Damage rating of 2 or higher.
> > > 
> > > > [!06–10 Gas leaks]-
> > > > Any non-Area weapons-fire causes a cloud of gas to erupt around both shooter and target. The cloud is 2” across, persists for the rest of the round and blocks all visibility.
> > > 
> > > > [!11–14 Special ammo required*]-
> > > > A special ammunition type is mandated. This is compatible with all non-Area weapons, but restricts all weapons to 1 Shot per round.
> > > 
> > > > [!15–18 Explosive weapon restriction*]-
> > > > No Area weapons may be deployed.
> > > 
> > > > [!19–22 Hacking required to enter]-
> > > > Your crew begins off-map. Each character must roll 6+ on a 1D6+Savvy test to enter the table from your battlefield edge. Roll at the start of each round. If all characters fail, select one to enter.
> > > 
> > > > [!23–26 Have to look humane*]-
> > > > No Melee weapons may be deployed.
> > > 
> > > > [!27–30 Light weapons only*]-
> > > > Only Pistol and Melee weapons may be deployed.
> > > 
> > > > [!31–34 Cautious progress required*]-
> > > > No Jump, Flight or Teleport devices may be deployed.
> > > 
> > > > [!35–39 Heavy gear impractical*]-
> > > > No Armor may be deployed.
> > > 
> > > > [!40–44 Erratic lighting]-
> > > > At the start of each phase (Quick Action, Enemy Action, Slow Action) roll 2D6 to determine maximum visibility in inches.
> > > 
> > > > [!45–50 Electronic interference]-
> > > > No Screens or Gunsights may be deployed.
> > > 
> > > > [!51–55 Environmental protection gear required]-
> > > > Except for Engineers and Soulless, no character may Dash.
> > > 
> > > > [!56–59 Organics only*]-
> > > > No Bots or Soulless may be deployed.
> > > 
> > > > [!60–65 No Psionics*]-
> > > > No Psionics may be deployed.
> > > 
> > > > [!66–70 Flash flooding]-
> > > > Put a marker on a random battlefield edge. At the end of each round, move the marker 1D3” towards the opposite battlefield edge. Anything between the marker and the initial battlefield edge is flooded. Any character in this area is washed away and removed from battle, but does not take any damage or post-battle Injury results.
> > > 
> > > > [!71–76 Unstable ground]-
> > > > At the end of each round, roll 1D6. On a 1, the area is shaken by tremors. All characters on the ground are stunned. All characters on a terrain feature but within 1” of the terrain edge must roll 1D6, and if the roll exceeds their base movement speed, they fall down.
> > > 
> > > > [!77–81 Watch your shots*]-
> > > > No more than 3 crew may fire a weapon each round.
> > > 
> > > > [!82–86 Scan before you progress*]-
> > > > No more than 3 crew may move each round.
> > > 
> > > > [!87–92 Special vision required]-
> > > > Special helmet visors only allow the character a visual range of 8+Savvy”. (8” for enemies)
> > > 
> > > > [!93–100 Strict rules of engagement*]-
> > > > You may not shoot at any target unless it shot at your crew last round OR is currently within 6”.
> > > 
> 
> > [!Assign Equipment]-
> > At this stage, you can reassign any equipment for your crew. Characters can trade items, leave items in your Stash, or take items from the Stash.
> > 
> > - **Stash Capacity**:
> >   - **With Ship**: Unlimited space.
> >   - **Without Ship**: Limited to 5 items, with duplicates of consumable items counting as a single item.
> > 
> > - **Important Notes**:
> >   - Stashed items are not available during a battle.
> >   - Once assignments are complete, each character is equipped with their assigned items until the following campaign turn begins.
> > 
> > This means that what they have now is what they will take into battle.
> 
> > [!Resolve any Rumours]-
> > You may find Rumours as you play. If you are not currently on a Quest, roll a D6 at this stage. If the roll is equal to or below the number of Rumours, remove all Rumours from your roster. You have now received a Quest which you may pursue immediately. 
> > 
> > Until the Quest is resolved, any time you would receive a Rumour, you receive a Quest Rumour instead.
> > 
> > When a Quest is received, add 1 story point immediately.

---

> [!Determine battle type]-
> 
> > [!Rival Mission]-
> > This is always a [[Rival Battle]].
> 
> > [!Invasion Mission]-
> > 
> > This is always a [[Invasion Battle]].
> 
> > [!Opportunity Mission]-
> >
> > [[Expanded Connections]]
> > Roll D6:
> > 1-4: [[Conventional Mission]]
> > 5: [[Stealth Mission]]
> > 6: [[Street Fight]]
> 
> > [!Patron Mission]-
> > Only available with an active Patron Job offer.
> > 
> > Roll D6:
> > 1-2: [[Conventional Mission]]
> > 3-4: [[Stealth Mission]]
> > 5-6: [[Street Fight]]
> 
> > [!Faction Mission]-
> > Only available with an active faction job offer.
> > 
> > Roll D6:
> > 1: [[Conventional Mission]]
> > 2-4: [[Stealth Mission]]
> > 5-6: [[Street Fight]]
> 
> > [!Quest Mission]-
> > Only available with an active quest.
> > 
> > Roll D6:
> > 1-3: [[Conventional Mission]]
> > 4: [[Stealth Mission]]
> > 5: [[Street Fight]]
> > 6: [[Salvage mission]]
> 

--- 









