
Battles are split up into rounds of activity. A round of battle is not a fixed period of time. It can represent a few moments when a lot of shooting is happening, or a couple of minutes when you are just sneaking around. Every round consists of the following phases:

> [!Seizing the Initiative]-
> After both sides have set up, and before the first round of the battle, the player may attempt to Seize the Initiative. If you’re successful, your crew caught the opposition by surprise, and gets a chance to take up positions or fire before the first round begins.
> ## Seizing the Initiative Roll
> - Roll 2D6.
> - Add the highest Savvy score of any crew member.
>   - Add +1 if you are outnumbered.
>   - When fighting opponents from the [[Hired Muscle]] encounter tables, modify by -1.
>   - If the campaign’s difficulty mode is Hardcore, modify by -2.
>   - If the campaign’s difficulty mode is Insanity, modify by -3.
> - Many opponent types will add a bonus or penalty to the roll.
> - If your crew includes any Feral, you may ignore any penalties the opponents would have imposed on you.
> ## Outcomes
> - On a total of 10+, every character in your crew may either:
>   - Take a normal Move, or
>   - Fire before the battle begins.
>     - Any shots taken only Hit on a natural 6.
> 
> **Note:** Although your crew may Seize the Initiative momentarily, when the first round begins, you will have to make a new Reaction Roll each and every round. You will not get a second opportunity to Seize the Initiative.

> [!The Reaction Roll]-
> 
> Each battle round, the first thing you will need to establish is the order in which figures act. This is the Reaction Roll. Follow these steps:
> 
> 1. **Roll Dice**: Roll a number of D6 equal to the number of your characters.
> 2. **Assign Dice**: Assign each of the dice results to one of your characters, comparing it to their Reaction score:
>     - Any character assigned a die result equal or below their Reaction score will act in the Quick Actions phase.
>     - Characters that were assigned a die result higher than their Reaction score will act in the Slow Actions phase.
> 
> 3. **Enemy Actions**: All enemies will act in the Enemy Actions phase.
> 
> Note that every figure always gets to act. The round ends when all figures on both sides have acted, and each phase has been completed.
> ## Feral Impetuous Actions
> If your crew has a Feral character, and you roll exactly a single 1 on your Initiative dice, it must be assigned to a Feral character. This rule does not apply if you roll multiple 1s.

> [!Actions]-
> - A figure may Move, then make a Combat Action.  
> - Stunned figures may Move OR make a Combat Action. 
> - Shocked figures do not make combat actions and follow movement rules.
> - Remove stun and Shocked markers after acting.
> - Quick Actions go first.
> - Enemy Actions go second.
> - Slow Actions go last.

> [!Snap Fire: Quick action only]-
> 
> Characters that are eligible to act in the Quick Actions phase may opt not to do so. This allows them to either fire when an enemy moves or to delay until the Slow Actions phase. 
> 
> ## Snap Fire Rules
> 
> - **Choosing Snap Fire**: Characters that choose to snap fire cannot move this round.
> - **Effect on Enemy**: If a moving enemy is stunned as a result of snap fire, they lose the ability to fire this round. If Shocked they stop immediately when the shot hits.
> - **Unutilized Snap Fire**: Characters that do not find an opportunity to use snap fire in the Enemy Actions phase can act normally in the Slow Actions phase.
> [!Movement Actions]-
>
> > [!Stun]-
> > 
> > - If a figure is Stunned, they may either Move OR take a Combat Action on their turn but cannot do both.
> > - A figure can have only one Stun marker. Duplicate markers are ignored.
> > - After the figure activates, the Stun marker is removed.
> 
> > [!Shock]-
> > Shocked figures ignore stun results.
> > 
> > **If a figure is Shocked when they activate, they must act as follows:**
> > - If they are in the open and in sight of enemy figures, they must move towards the closest terrain where they would obtain cover.
> > - If they are in cover and in sight of enemy figures, if they can move in such a way to break line of sight from at least one enemy, they must do so.
> > - In all other circumstances, they remain in place.
> > - Shocked figures do not take a Combat Action.
> > 
> > After the figure activates, the Shock marker is removed.

> [!Movement Action]-
> 
> When moving, a figure may move up to their Speed in tabletop inches. Terrain features do not typically reduce movement speeds, but Difficult terrain will consume an additional 1” of movement allowance for every full 2” moved in it.
>  
>  Opening doors costs 1” of movement. Climbing through a window or hole costs 2”.
> 
>  A figure cannot move directly through another figure at any time.
> 
> > [!Vertical movement, jumping, falling and leaping]-
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Moving Up and Down]-
> > > Vertical obstacles can be traversed by simply paying the height of the obstacle in inches. For example, crossing a 2” tall wall uses 2” of movement allowance.
> > > 
> > > A descent of 1” or less can be performed for free. Any longer drop requires the character to either climb down. (with the same cost as climbing up), or Jump.
> > > 
> > > Skulker characters: When moving, they may ignore any obstacle up to 1” in height and do not count the first 1” of any climb for movement reduction purposes.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Jumping]-
> > > - Jumping does not require any available movement, meaning a character can move to an edge and Jump down.
> > > - Jumping down more than 1” ends the character's round.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Falling]-
> > > - Jumping down more than 1” ends the character's round.
> > > - Jumping (a fall is just a jump you did not intend!) down 3” or further inflicts a Damage +0 Hit with +1 Damage added for each additional 2”.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Leaping]-
> > > - Characters can leap over a gap up to 2” wide, counting it as part of their standard movement.
> > > - Swift characters may leap over gaps up to 4”.
> > 
> 
> > [!Random and Alternative Movement]-
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Random Movement]-
> > > A battle event or effect may cause a character to move randomly. Unless stated otherwise, determine the direction of movement and then move the figure its full standard movement distance in a straight line. The character will halt and become Stunned if they contact a terrain feature.
> > > 
> > > If a randomly moving character collides with another character, the moving character comes to a halt and is Stunned. The character collided with is pushed 1” along the direction of movement and then Stunned.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Alternative Movement Actions]-
> > > Some characters may have access to different modes of movement that replace their normal movement, such as powered jumps or teleportation. Using an Alternative Movement Action replaces the normal Movement Action. The character may decide which movement to use each round.
> > > 
> > > A teleporting character that would materialize inside a solid object suffers a spatial shift. Move them 2D6” in a random direction. The character receives a Stun marker when this happens. If the new location is also inside an object, repeat the process and place a Shock marker. In the event a character would emerge in a location occupied by another character, the occupying character is Stunned instead, and the teleporting character suffers a spatial shift.
> > > 
> > > A character that materializes over an Impassable terrain feature such as a lava lake, toxic sludge pool, or similar, becomes a casualty and is removed from the battlefield.
> > > 
> > > Swift characters may glide down from a height. Pick a location that is below the current position of the figure and no farther away horizontally than the difference in the heights of the two locations. Place the figure at the new location. Resolve this as part of the Alternative Movement Action.
> > > 
> > > Simply Jumping down is a Free Action for a Swift. Gliding counts as a Swift’s Movement Action.
> > 
> 
> > [!Arc of Fire]-
> > 
> > All figures have an Arc of Fire to their front. 
> > - This is 90 degrees. 
> > - If the only ranged weapons carried are Pistols, the Arc of Fire is 180 degrees.
> > - Player figures can face in any direction at the end of a move action. 
> > - Enemies will face in the direction they moved if no enemies are visible. 
> > - Enemies that are able to fire at a target will always turn to face the target.
> 
> > [!Dash]-
> > Characters that do not intend to take a Combat Action can Dash, allowing them to move an additional 2”. 
> > 
> > Enemies will do so to reach cover or move into range. An enemy with a ranged weapon will not Dash if they are able to fire at a target.
> 

> [!Enemy Movement]-
> 
> The way the enemy moves on the field requires the player to inject a modest amount of “artificial intelligence” into proceedings. It is assumed that the player will make decisions based on what is reasonable, but can also operate enemies according to one of seven broad AI types, shown below. It is up to the player to decide how strictly to adhere to these.
> 
> > [!Enemy Overwatch]-
> > 
> > - Enemies with ranged weapons that end their activation unable to see a target roll 1D6.
> >   - On a 5-6 they enter Overwatch.
> >   - Enemies with Defensive or Cautious AI do so on a 4-6.
> > - Enemies on Overwatch will fire immediately the first time a target becomes visible to them and is within their Arc of Fire.
> > - The status lasts until the figure activates next, is hit by an attack, or engaged in a brawl.
> > - Overwatch fire is resolved normally but hits only on a natural 6.
> 
> > [!How to Use Movement Tables]-
> > 
> > - Enemies activate in the normal order.
> > - When an enemy figure is selected to act, check if the base condition for the AI type applies. If it does, it will take the listed action. Otherwise, roll 1D6 to determine what actions the enemy takes.
> > - Resolve all actions by each figure completely before the next enemy is selected to act.
> 
> > [!Group Actions]-
> > 
> > - Any group of enemies where a given figure is within 2” of another – for example in a skirmish line – will obey the same die roll instead of rolling for each figure.
> > - If any figure in the group would be subject to the base condition, they all follow that option.
> 
> > [!Impossible or Stupid Actions]-
> > 
> > The system may suggest an action that is impossible to carry out or which would make no sense in the current context of the game. In such circumstances, the player will have to inject some logic. After all, enemies will not wander off cliff-sides or charge into lava pools. If in doubt, the figure will remain in place and fire at a visible target.
> 
>> [!Cautious]-
>> **Base condition:** If in Cover and visible opponents are within 12”, move away to the most distant position that remains in Cover and in range and retains Line of Sight to an opponent, then fire.
>>
> >> [!Alternative behaviour]-
> > > | ROLL | ACTION                                                                               |
> > > | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
> > > | 1    | Retreat a full move, remaining in Cover. Maintain Line of Sight if possible. |
> > > | 2    | Remain in place or manoeuvre within current Cover to fire.                        |
> > > | 3    | Remain in place or manoeuvre within current Cover to fire.                        |
> > > | 4    | Advance to within 12" of the nearest enemy and fire. Remain in Cover.            |
> > > | 5    | Advance to within 12" of the nearest enemy and fire. Remain in Cover.            |
> > > | 6    | Advance on the nearest enemy and fire, ending in Cover if possible.              |
> > > Notes:
> > > - **Next forward position:** The next Cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question.
> > > - **Use Cover:** The figure will attempt to remain in Cover or out of sight. A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into Cover. The figure will only end a move out of Cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures.
> > > - **Manoeuvre within Cover:** The figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in Cover). If the figure is not in Cover currently, it will move to find Cover, Dashing if needed.
> 
>> [!Aggressive]-
>> **Base condition:** If able to engage an opponent in brawling combat this round, advance to do so.
> >> [!Alternative movement]-
> > > | ROLL | ACTION                                                                                 |
> > > |------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> > > | 1    | Manoeuvre within current cover to fire.                                                 |
> > > | 2    | Manoeuvre within current cover to fire.                                                 |
> > > | 3    | Advance to the next forward position in cover. Fire if eligible.                       |
> > > | 4    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use cover.                                      |
> > > | 5    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Fastest route.                                  |
> > > | 6    | Dash towards the nearest enemy. Fastest route.                                         |
> > > Notes:
> > > - **Next forward position:** The next cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question.
> > > - **Use cover:** The figure will attempt to remain in cover or out of sight. A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into cover. The figure will only end a move out of cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures.
> > > - **Manoeuvre within cover:** The figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in cover). If the figure is not in cover currently, it will move to find cover, Dashing if needed.
> 
>> [!Tactical]-
>> **Base condition:** If in cover and within 12” of visible opponents, remain in position and fire.
>> 
> >> [!Alternative Movement]-
> > > | ROLL | ACTION                                                                                  |
> > > |------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> > > | 1    | Remain in place to fire.                                                                |
> > > | 2    | Manoeuvre within current cover to fire.                                                  |
> > > | 3    | Advance to the next forward position in cover or move to flank.                         |
> > > | 4    | Advance to the next forward position in cover or move to flank.                         |
> > > | 5    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use cover.                                       |
> > > | 6    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use cover.                                       |
> > > Notes:
> > > - **Next forward position:** The next cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question.
> > > - **Use cover:** The figure will attempt to remain in cover or out of sight. A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into cover. The figure will only end a move out of cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures.
> > > - **Manoeuvre within cover:** The figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in cover). If the figure is not in cover currently, it will move to find cover, Dashing if needed.
>
>> [!Rampaging]-
>> - Rampaging enemies will move as fast as possible towards the closest opponent, and will always attempt to enter Brawling combat.
>> - Rampagers with Heavy weapons will stand and fire, if in sight of a target.
> 
>> [!Defensive]-
>> **Base condition:** If in cover and opponents in the open are visible, remain in position and fire.
>> 
> >> [!Alternative Movement]-
> > > | ROLL | ACTION                                                         |
> > > |------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
> > > | 1    | Remain in place to fire.                                       |
> > > | 2    | Maneuver within current cover to fire.                         |
> > > | 3    | Maneuver within current cover to fire.                         |
> > > | 4    | Maneuver within current cover to fire.                         |
> > > | 5    | Advance to the next forward position in cover.                 |
> > > | 6    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use cover.              |
> > > Notes:
> > > - **Next forward position:** The next cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question.
> > > - **Use cover:** The figure will attempt to remain in cover or out of sight. A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into cover. The figure will only end a move out of cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures.
> > > - **Manoeuvre within cover:** The figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in cover). If the figure is not in cover currently, it will move to find cover, Dashing if needed.
> 
>> [!Beast]-
>> - Beast enemies will always attempt to move as far as possible towards the nearest opponent, while remaining in Cover.
>> - They will only break Cover if they can enter a brawl within two moves. Otherwise, they will move to break Line of Sight and manoeuvre closer.
>> - When possible, Beasts will attempt to remain within 2” of a friendly figure, attacking the same targets.
>> 
>> ## Enemy Skulking
>> 
>> - Enemies with the Beast AI that end their activation unable to see a target roll 1D6.
>> - On a 5-6, they are immediately moved to the nearest terrain feature that is closer to a target figure.
>> - Place the Beast in the centre of the feature if possible, otherwise behind it and touching.
> 
>> [!Guardian]-
>> - Guardian enemies are attached to another figure and must always remain within 3” of that figure, if possible.
>> - They will move at the same pace and attack the same targets using the same methods (firing / Brawling), whenever possible.

> [!Ranged Combat]-
> 
> > [!Eligibility to Fire]-
> > - A stunned character can either move or take an action but cannot do both. 
> > - A shocked character can not make a combat action.
> > - Characters with multiple weapons can choose any one weapon to fire.
> > 
> > > [!Lines of Sight]-
> > > A Line of Sight is an imaginary line between two figures, establishing if they can see and fire upon each other. In most cases, visibility is obvious. If in doubt, leaning down and getting a look from behind one of the figures will give you a “true” Line of Sight. If you can see the whole figure, then they can be fired at with no penalty. If you are uncertain, and the positioning is awkward, a laser line tool, or a length of string pulled taut can be used to check.
> > > 
> > > Lines of Sight are considered mutual by default. If a figure is obscured by certain types of terrain that they are adjacent to (within 1”), it is assumed that figure is using it to avoid being hit by an attacker, in which case, they gain the benefit of cover..
> > > 
> > > ## Shooting across Linear Obstacles
> > > Linear obstacles are ignored for Line of Sight purposes if the target figure is entirely visible over them. This is typically the case when the shooter is placed on a raised terrain feature, such as a rooftop. Otherwise, Line of Sight exists, and the target receives the benefits of cover unless the shooter is within 1” of the obstacle (such as firing from directly behind a wall).
> > > 
> > > ## Shooting past Things
> > > If the Line of Sight is obscured by a stray item, such as an Individual terrain feature (a rock or tree is often the culprit), Line of Sight is not blocked as long as they are at least partially visible.
> > > 
> > > ## Shooting past People
> > > If Line of Sight is partially obscured by another figure, Line of Sight is blocked, regardless of which side the intervening figure belongs to.
> > > 
> > > ## Area Features
> > > - Line of Sight into an Area feature terminates at the nearest edge.
> > > - Any figure placed in the feature, but touching an edge, can see and be seen from that side of the edge.
> > > - Figures within an Area feature and not touching an edge cannot see figures on the outside.
> > > - Figures within the same Area feature can see each other if they are within 3”.
> > > 
> > > ## Miniatures in Peculiar Poses
> > > Some miniatures are in dramatic poses, with raised arms, tails sticking out, and so forth. Clearly our imaginary characters are not quite so eager to have their limbs shot, so Lines of Sight and cover should be based on the body of the figure.
> > 
> > > [!Adjudicating Line of Sight and Cover]-
> > > In general, the game plays best if you are somewhat generous with Line of Sight as well as being somewhat generous with Cover. In other words:
> > > 
> > > **If in doubt, allow the shot to be made but count it as Cover.
> 
> > [!Gun Slinging]-
> > A figure may fire 2 Pistols if both are fired at the same target. Combat Skill is not added to the hit rolls when Gun Slinging.
> 
> > [!Target Selection]-
> > The target must be within the Arc of Fire of the figure.
> > 
> > Player controlled characters must shoot at the closest target within 3” and may otherwise select any target.
> > 
> > Targets must be within weapon range.
> > 
> > Enemies will always try to target the easiest target to hit, followed by the closest target. Pick randomly if needed.
> > 
> > Weapons with multiple Shots select an initial target and may then allocate additional Shots to that target or to targets within 3”. Enemies will always try to hit the most targets possible and allocate excess shots to the initial target.
> 
> > [!Cover and Rolling to hit]-
> > For each Shot, roll 1D6 and add the Combat Skill of the shooter, as well as any other hit modifiers.
> > ### - Targets in the open are hit on a final score of **5+**.
> > ### - Targets in cover are hit on a final score of **6+**.
> > 
> > Any final roll that does not score the required number or higher is a miss and has no effect.
> > > [!Cover]-
> > > 
> > > Cover makes it more difficult to hit a target at range, and moving across the battlefield using Cover is certainly wiser than standing in the open! A figure is considered to be in Cover for combat purposes if any of the following are true:
> > > - line of sight crossed any terrain feature more than 1” from the firer.
> > > - The figure is positioned within an Area feature.
> > > - The figure is in contact with a terrain feature that partially obscures line of sight.
> > > 
> > > ## Miniatures in Peculiar Poses
> > > Some miniatures are in dramatic poses, with raised arms, tails sticking out, and so forth. Clearly our imaginary characters are not quite so eager to have their limbs shot, so line of sight and Cover should be based on the body of the figure.
> > 
> > > [!Good Shot]-
> > >A figure has a Good Shot and if one of two conditions apply:
> > >
> > >1. **Height Advantage**: The firer is positioned at least one human figure height higher than the target. This only counts the terrain height; the height of the figures is irrelevant.
> > >2. **Flanking**: The target is in the open, and the firer is outside their Arc of Fire.
> > >
> > >If the attack is a Good Shot, the firer can reroll a single 1 on the firing dice.
> 
> > [!Panic Fire]-
> > 
> > A figure firing a Pistol may Panic Fire the weapon. The figure receives 1 additional Shot but the Pistol is not usable for the rest of the battle.
> 
> > [!Crouching]-
> > 
> > Terrain pieces that are no larger than a human figure allow a figure to Crouch if they are in contact and the line of fire crosses part of the terrain feature. Such features are usually barrels, crates, boulders or similar.
> > 
> > Crouching is automatic and does not take an action. It does not inhibit actions in any way.
> > 
> > If a ranged hit strikes a Crouching character, roll 1D6. On a 5-6 the terrain feature is blown to pieces but the hit is negated.
> 
> > [!Firefights]-
> > When shooting at a target, a Firefight occurs if:
> > 
> > 1. The firer is within the target's arc of fire and weapon range.
> > 2. All Shots missed and at least one rolled a natural 1 to hit.
> > 3. The target is not stunned or Shocked.
> > 
> > If a Firefight occurs, the target may immediately fire on the attacker. Firefight attacks hit only on a natural 6 and can in turn spawn Firefight attacks of their own. If multiple figures are eligible, only the closest figure may fire. 
> > 
> > Player characters may choose not to fire back.
> 
> > [!Lunging]-
> > Some figures may Lunge if the following conditions are met:
> > 
> > 1. They are fired upon and the firer is within the base move distance of the target.
> > 2. All shots miss and the target is not stunned or Shocked.
> > 3. The target has a Melee weapon OR lacks any ranged weapon.
> > 
> > If eligible, the target immediately takes a normal move to enter Brawling combat.
> > 
> > Player characters may choose not to.

> [!Brawling Combat]-
> 
> If two opposing figures contact each other while moving, a brawl is resolved immediately.
> 
> Each character selects the weapon they want to use.
> 
> - Roll 1D6 for each figure and add their Combat Skill.
>   - Add +1 if using a Pistol and +2 if using a Melee weapon. The enemy will always opt for the weapon with the highest bonus.
>   - The figure with the highest score inflicts a hit with the selected weapon. On a draw, both sides take a hit.
>   - A natural 6 on the attack roll inflicts a hit automatically. This is in addition to any hits inflicted if the figure wins.
>   - A natural 1 is a fumble, and the figure takes a hit from their opponent. This is in addition to any hits suffered if the figure loses.
> 
> Figures with no suitable weapon can improvise. They add +0 and strike with Damage +0.
> ### Stun and Shock
> - A figure moving to engage a stunned or Shocked opponent receives a +1 bonus to the die roll.
> 
> > [!Following Up]-
> > - A figure that eliminates its opponent may Follow Up.
> > - The figure can move 2” in any direction and may enter another brawl if able.
> > - If the opponent was pushed back but not eliminated, a Follow Up move is not permitted.
> 
> > [!Engaging while stunned]-
> > - As you cannot Move and take a Combat Action while stunned, player characters and most enemies cannot move to Brawling combat if they are stunned when they activate.
> > - However, enemies with Aggressive, Beast, and Rampaging AI are allowed to do so and suffer no penalty for doing so.
> 
> > [!Multiple Opponents]-
> > In some cases, an attacker might end up in contact with multiple opponents. Select randomly who fights first. Resolve the combat normally, with the outnumbering side getting a +1 bonus to the brawl roll.
> > 
> > If the lone fighter wins, they do not get a 2” bonus move, but must instead immediately fight the remaining opponent. No bonus applies in this case.
> > 
> > Only two combatants can fight against a single attacker. In the unlikely event a single attacker manages to contact three or more opponents in a single move, randomly select one that is pushed back 1”.

> [!Resolving Hits]-
> 
> > [!Luck]-
> > 
> > A figure with Luck receives a Luck roll when they are hit. On a 4-6 the hit is negated and 1 point of Luck is used up. On a 1-3 the hit applies normally and Luck is not used up. This is done before making Saving Throws. Luck is restored after the end of the battle.
> > ##### **Humans are the only species that are allowed more than one point of Luck.
> 
> > [!Saving Throws]-
> > 
> > Figures with a Saving Throw roll 1D6 when they take a hit. If the die is equal to or above the Saving Throw score, the hit is negated. If the die is below the Saving Throw score, the hit connects normally and the Damage roll is made.
> > 
> > If a figure has more than one Saving Throw, they receive a single roll equal to the best available Saving Throw, improved one step.
> 
> > [!Rolling for damage]-
> > For each Shot that hits, roll 1D6 and add the Damage rating of the weapon.
> > 
> > - A score above the Toughness of the target produces a roll on the below casualty table.
> > - Critical Hit: If the Hit roll was a natural 6, roll one additional time on the casualty table and use the highest result as normal.
> > - A score **equal** to the Toughness score pushes the target 1” directly away from the attacker and  them.
> > - A score **below** the Toughness score pushes the target 1” directly away from the attacker and stun them.
> > 
> > A figure can only be Shocked or stunned once. Ignore duplicates shock takes precedence over stun.
> > 
> > > [!Humanoid Combatants]-
> > > 
> > > 
> > > | **REGULAR** | **BOSS** | **OUTCOME** | **EFFECT** |
> > > |-------------|----------|-------------|------------|
> > > | 1-2         | 1-2      | Dazed       | On their next activation, they do not remove a stunned marker automatically. Ignore this result if already Dazed. |
> > > | 3-4         | 3-5      | Wounded     | The character moves at half speed; Reduce their Combat Skill by 1 (this can potentially reduce you to -1). If Wounded again, they are a Goner (see below) |
> > > | 5-6         | 6        | Goner       | The character is removed from play. |
> > > 
> > 
> > > [!Cybernetic Combatants]-
> > > 
> > > | **REGULAR** | **BOSS** | **OUTCOME**            | **EFFECT** |
> > > |-------------|----------|------------------------|------------|
> > > | 1-2         | 1-2      | Temporary shutdown     | On their next activation, do not remove a stun marker automatically. Ignore this result if already shut down. |
> > > | 3-4         | 3-5      | Damaged                | Mark the figure with a token. Every time it activates, roll D6, with a 6 indicating that it falls apart and is removed from play. Multiple instances have no effect. Add +1 to future casualty rolls. |
> > > | 5-6         | 6        | Goner                  | The character is removed from play. |
> > > 
> > 
> > > [!Beasts and Monsters]-
> > > 
> > > | **REGULAR** | **BOSS** | **OUTCOME**           | **EFFECT** |
> > > |-------------|----------|-----------------------|------------|
> > > | 1-2         | 1-2      | Knock down / Drive off| Move 2” directly away from the firer per hit inflicted by the attack. |
> > > | 3-4         | 3-5      | Bleeding              | Roll D6 at the end of the character’s next activation: On a 1, the Bleeding condition ends. On a 6, they are a Goner. Add +1 to future injury rolls. Multiple instances have no effect. |
> > > | 5-6         | 6        | Goner                 | The character is removed from play. |
> > > 
> > ## All in a Day’s Work
> > 
> > Any Bleeding / Damaged / Wounded condition is removed at the end of the battle and has no long-term effects.
> 
>  > [!Stun]-
> >  
> >  - If a figure is Stunned, they may either Move OR take a Combat Action on their turn but cannot do both.
> >  - A figure can have only one Stun marker. Duplicate markers are ignored.
> >  - After the figure activates, the Stun marker is removed.
> 
> > [!Shock]-
> > Shocked figures ignore stun results.
> > 
> > **If a figure is Shocked when they activate, they must act as follows:**
> > - If they are in the open and in sight of enemy figures, they must move towards the closest terrain where they would obtain cover.
> > - If they are in cover and in sight of enemy figures, if they can move in such a way to break line of sight from at least one enemy, they must do so.
> > - In all other circumstances, they remain in place.
> > - Shocked figures do not take a Combat Action.
> > 
> > After the figure activates, the Shock marker is removed.
> 

> [!End Phase]-
> During this phase, carry out any end-of-round activities, such as checking if a defeated enemy force withdraws from battle (see below). If the rules say something happens at the end of the round, this is when it happens. You may resolve any such events in any order you like. 
> 
> > [!Enemy Running Away]-
> > 
> > At the end of each round, the enemy will test Morale if they lost any figures during the round just played. If the enemy fails their test, some of them will Bail, fleeing the field of battle.
> > 
> > - **Morale Test**: Roll a number of dice equal to the number of figures that were removed due to combat this round. Every die that falls within the Panic range for the enemy type indicates one of them will Bail.
> > - **Applying Panic Dice**: Apply each die to an enemy figure, starting with the figures closest to the enemy battlefield edge. These figures Bail and are removed from play. They do not count as “killed” for any purposes, and do not trigger additional Morale dice to be rolled.
> > - **Panic Range**: Some enemy types have a Panic range of 0, indicating that they fight to the death unless some factor raises their Panic range to 1 or more.
> 
> > [!Fearless]-
> > 
> > Some enemies, including all Lieutenants, are Fearless. They will never Bail, regardless of circumstances. These troops do not have Morale dice applied to them. Simply skip them and apply the die to the next closest figure to the enemy battlefield edge.
> 
> > [!Battle Events on Round 2 and Round 4]-
> >
> > Battle Events add a random component to the tabletop battle beyond the simple to Hit rolls and damage checks. At the end of Round 2 of the battle, roll once on this table and apply the result to the gaming table. Roll a second random event at the end of Round 4. No additional events are rolled.
> >
> > > [!1–5: Renewed efforts]-
> > > 
> > > The enemy is making a concerted effort to push you back. For the rest of the battle, after all enemy figures have acted, select a random figure that may immediately take a second Move and second Combat Action.
> >  
> > > [!6–9: Enemy reinforcements]-  
> > > 
> > > An additional 2 enemy figures arrive at the centre of the opposing battlefield edge. One is armed as a Specialist (if applicable to the enemy type).
> >  
> > > [!10–13: Change of plans]-  
> > > 
> > > The enemy switches to the Cautious AI type for the rest of the battle. If they were already Cautious, they instead switch to Tactical AI. Enemies with no ranged attacks are unaffected by this event.
> > 
> > > [!14–16: Lost heart]-  
> > > 
> > > The enemy has had enough of this fight. At the end of the next round, they will leave the field.
> > 
> > > [!17–20: Seized the moment]-  
> > > 
> > > Select a crew member who may move and act in both the Quick and Slow Actions phases next round.
> > 
> > > [!21–26: Critters!]- 
> > > 
> > > Place 1D3 Vent Crawlers (p.102) in the centre of the table, and move each of them 1D6” in a random direction. At the beginning of the Enemy Actions phase, they will move towards the nearest figure and attack, regardless of which side the figure is on. If you are already fighting Vent Crawlers, this is bad news, as they are of course part of the enemy brood.
> > 
> > > [!27–30: Ammo fault]-  
> > > 
> > > Select a random figure in your crew. If they fired a weapon last round, it cannot be used for the rest of the battle. If they did not, select a random carried weapon, which can be fired only once this battle.
> > 
> > > [!31–34: Visibility change]-  
> > > 
> > > If visibility is currently reduced, increase the vision range by +1D6”. If visibility is currently unlimited, reduce it to 1D6+6”.
> > 
> > > [!35–38: Tougher than expected]-  
> > > 
> > > Select a random enemy figure. They receive +1 Toughness (to a maximum of 6) and remove all current stun markers on that figure.
> > 
> > > [!39–42: Snap shot]-  
> > > 
> > > Select a figure in your crew. They may fire a weapon immediately. If the weapon is a Pistol, it Hits automatically, otherwise roll to Hit normally.
> > 
> > > [!43–46: Cunning plan]-  
> > > 
> > > In the next round, do not roll for Initiative. Each of your crew acts in the Quick or Slow Actions phase as you prefer.
> > 
> > > [!47–50: Possible reinforcements]-  
> > > 
> > > Place 3 markers evenly spaced along the opposing battlefield edge. At the start of the Enemy Actions phase next round, select a random marker, and roll 1D6. On a 5–6, a new basic enemy figure is placed on the marker, otherwise it is removed. Roll for one marker per round until they are all gone. If a crew member moves within 3” of a marker, it is removed instantly.
> > 
> > > [!51–54: Clock is running out]-  
> > > 
> > > At the end of the next round and each round thereafter, roll 1D6. On a 6, the game ends immediately, and you are unable to complete any objectives. You will not count as Holding the Field unless you clear the table of enemies before this happens.
> > 
> > > [!55–60: Environmental hazard]-  
> > > 
> > > Select a random terrain feature. Any figure currently in, on, or within 1” of the feature must roll 1D6+Savvy and achieve a 5+ (enemies roll 1D6 and must roll a 4+) or take a Damage +1 Hit, ignoring any Armor Saving Throws. The feature is safe afterwards.
> > 
> > > [!61–65: A desperate plan]-  
> > > 
> > > A random figure in your crew cannot act next round, but instead select another figure of choice that may act in both the Quick and Slow Actions phases.
> > 
> > > [!66–70: A moment of hesitation]-  
> > > 
> > > Next round, select a single figure that acts in the Quick Actions phase (if any Feral are in the squad, you must select a Feral). All other figures acts in the Slow Actions phase.
> > 
> > > [!71–73: Fumbled grenade]-  
> > > 
> > > A random enemy fumbles a grenade. The figure in question runs 6” in a random direction and is then stunned. Every figure, crew and enemy within 4” of the initial position will immediately run 4” directly away. The grenade then goes off harmlessly. If the enemy is one that would not use grenades, nothing happens.
> > 
> > > [!74–77: Back up]-  
> > > 
> > > If you have spare crew not taking part in the battle, you may have one crew member arrive. Place them on the centre of your own battlefield edge.
> > 
> > > [!78–80: Enemy VIP]-  
> > > 
> > > A [[Unique Individual]] immediately joins the enemy force. Place them on the centre of their battlefield edge.
> > 
> > > [!81–85: Fog cloud]-  
> > > 
> > > A dense cloud of fog envelops the centre of the table for the rest of the battle. It extends 6” in every direction and blocks all visibility past 2”.
> > 
> > > [!86–89: Lost!]-  
> > > 
> > > A random crew member loses their way and misses the rest of the battle. Remove the figure from the battlefield. They re-join you safely afterwards, looking a bit sheepish. Ignore this event if you are currently outnumbered.
> > 
> > > [!90–93: I found something!]-  
> > > 
> > > Randomly select a crew member, then place a marker 1D6” from them in a random direction. The enemy will ignore it. If any crew member moves into contact and spends a non-Combat Action, roll for a Loot item (p.131) and claim it for use immediately.
> > 
> > > [!94–97: Looks valuable]-  
> > > 
> > > Randomly select a crew member, then place a marker 1D6” from them in a random direction. The enemy will ignore it. If any crew member moves into contact and spends a non-Combat Action, obtain 1D3 credits.
> > 
> > > [!98–100: You want me to check that out?]-  
> > > 
> > > Select a random crew member. They may opt to go check out something they insist they saw. If they do, they are removed from the battle. After the battle ends, they may roll once on the Loot table (p.131). If you opt not to go, you cannot send a different character, and the chance is lost.
> 
> > [!Escalating Battles]-
> > 
> > In this system, the enemy reacts dynamically to your actions, making the combat feel more intense and unpredictable. Perform an Escalation check at the end of each round if any of the following conditions are met:
> > 
> > - Any enemy figures were removed from play.
> > - A crew member reached an objective.
> > - At the end of Round 1, if the enemy is outnumbered by 3 or more.
> > 
> > **Important Note:** No more than 3 Escalation rolls are made during the battle. Once the third roll has been made, further checks are not required.
> > 
> > ## Escalation Table
> > 
> > Roll 1D100 according to the main AI type and consult the table below to determine the escalation effect:
> > 
> > |**Escalation Effect**|**Aggressive**|**Cautious**|**Defensive**|**Rampaging**|**Tactical**|**Beast**|
> > |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
> > |**[[Morale Increase]]**|01-15|01-10|01-20|01-10|01-10|01-10|
> > |**[[Fighting Intensifies]]**|16-30|11-15|21-40|11-20|11-25|11-15|
> > |**[[Reinforcements!]]**|31-45|16-40|41-50|21-45|26-30|16-35|
> > |**[[Regroup]]**|–|41-55|51-65|–|31-45|–|
> > |**[[Sniper!]]**|–|56-70|66-75|–|46-60|–|
> > |**[[Ambush!]]**|46-60|–|–|46-60|–|36-80|
> > |**[[Covering Fire]]**|61-70|71-80|76-90|–|61-85|–|
> > |**[[Unconventional Tactics]]**|71-80|81-100|91-100|61-65|86-100|–|
> > |**[[Rush Attack]]**|81-100|–|–|66-100|–|81-100|
> > 
> 
> > [!Ending the Battle]-
> > 
> > A battle ends in one of the following circumstances. It is important to establish whether you achieved your objective, and/or Held the Field, which is important for rewards and accomplishing some missions:
> > 
> > - **All enemy figures have been slain or have Bailed**: In this case, you are considered to have Held the Field. Consult the mission objective to determine if your battle objective can be completed.
> > - **Achieving the Win condition**: If you have achieved the Win condition of your objective, your enemy may give up. 
> >   - **Rampaging or Beast opponents**: Will fight until either side has completely left the table.
> >   - **Other AI types**: Roll as indicated below at the end of the current and every subsequent round based on the main AI type present:
> >     - Roll 2D6 for Cautious, Defensive, or Tactical opponents.
> >     - Roll 1D6 for Aggressive opponents.
> >     - If either die is a natural 1, the enemy withdraws and the battle ends immediately, with you Holding the Field.
> > - **All player figures have become casualties or have left the battlefield**: You do not Hold the Field.
> > - **All player figures left the battlefield**: Having achieved your objectives before exiting the battle, or the “It’s Time to Go” option from Stars of the Story may have been invoked. You do not Hold the Field.
> > 
> > If for some reason you have to end a tabletop battle for any other reason, you do not count as achieving any objectives or Holding the Field.
> 





