
> [!Resolve Rival Status]-
> 1. **If you fought an opponent that isn’t a Rival and Held the Field:**
>    - Roll 1D6. On a 1, the type of opponents you just fought become your Rivals, and should be noted for this planet.
>    - On any other roll, they either had enough or figured “business is business,” and will leave you alone.
> 
> 2. **If you just fought against an existing Rival and Held the Field:**
>    - Roll 1D6, adding +1 if you Tracked them down during Assign and Resolve Crew Tasks (see World Step, p.76).
>    - Add +1 if you killed a [[Unique Individual]] in the battle.
>    - On a 4 or better, they’ve had enough, and you can remove them from your Rivals list.
> 
> 3. **Skip this step for:**
>    - Invasion battles.
>    - Opponents from the [[Roving Threats]] Subtable.

> [!Check for illegal Psionic usage]-
> ## If Psionics are Illegal
> 
> If Psionics are illegal, a Psionic does not run any risk of detection unless they actively use a power during combat. If they do, planetary authorities (or another party interested in suppressing psionic rights) may take action. If a Psionic uses a power during combat, roll D6 during the post-game step ‘1. Resolve Rival Status’, and consult the table below:
> ### Psionic Usage
> 
> | PSIONIC USAGE                                           | PSIONICS DETECTED |
> | ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
> | A character used a psionic power once during the battle | 1                 |
> | A character used psionic powers multiple times          | 1-2               |
> 
> If the indicated result is rolled, a band of Psi-hunters are now on your tail. Roll D6 again to determine the exact type:
> 
> ### Psi-Hunters
> 
> | 1D6 | RIVALS           | NOTES                                |
> | --- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------ |
> | 1-2 | Bounty Hunters   | From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable |
> | 3   | Vigilantes       | From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable |
> | 4-5 | Enforcers        | From the [[Hired Muscle]] subtable       |
> | 6   | Colonial Militia | From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable |
> 
> Note on your record sheet that these Rivals are Psi-hunters in addition to their normal type. They are subject to the following adjustments:
> - Seize the Initiative rolls against them must be taken at a -2 modifier.
> - After generating the number and nature of enemies, add 1 additional Specialist enemy to their force.
> - Psi-hunters add +1 to their attack roll when shooting at or Brawling with a Psionic character.

> [!Resolve Patron status]-
> If you succeeded in a patron mission, you may add the patron to your list of contacts on this planet, unless the job was a One-time Contract.
> 
> When you travel to a new planet, all patrons become unavailable, unless they are Persistent.

> [!Determine Quest Progress]-
> **Roll 1D6**, adding the number of Quest Rumours you have acquired so far.
>  - **Modified score of 6 or lower:** Roll on the Quest Progression Table to determine your next step.
>   - **Modified score of 7 or higher:** You have reached the Quest Conclusion. Go to the Quest Conclusion section.
>   - **If the modified roll was a 4 or higher:** roll another D6 with no modifiers. On a 5-6, the next step is on another world, and you must travel before you are able to progress the Quest. You do not have to do so immediately, however. Quests will wait for you.
> 
> > [!Quest Progression Table]-
> > 
> > > [!01–10 - You track down a source of possible information, but it may not be cheap.]-
> > > It costs 1D6 credits. Until this has been paid, you cannot progress the Quest. Once it is paid, receive 1 Quest Rumor.
> > 
> > > [!11–20 - You need time to analyse the data you have found.]-
> > > You generate research points equal to the combined Savvy scores of your crew members, +1D6. If the total research points equals or exceeds 20, you have solved this step and receive 1 Quest Rumor. If not, you may continue accumulating research points every campaign turn until you reach the total. Until this has been done, you cannot progress the Quest.
> > 
> > > [!21–28 - You’ve figured out where to go, but you are not liking it one bit!]-
> > > Randomly determine an enemy as normal, but add +2 to the number encountered, and reduce their Panic range by -1. You may take on this battle at any time, but until you do, you cannot progress the Quest. If you Hold the Field, receive 1 Quest Rumor.
> > 
> > > [!29–38 - To progress is going to require a lot of hard work.]-
> > > A special Work on the Quest crew task becomes available. This has no effect other than to help complete this step. Once a total of 6 such tasks have been performed by your crew, receive 1 Quest Rumor. You can perform the actions over multiple campaign turns, but cannot progress the Quest until this is completed.
> > 
> > > [!39–53 - You need to find a data cache with information.]-
> > > Set up a normal Opportunity mission with the Access mission objective. The enemy is deployed within 3” of the objective with your crew setting up at least 12” from any enemy figures. When the mission is completed, receive 1 Quest Rumor. Until the mission is completed, you cannot progress the Quest.
> > 
> > > [!54–65 - You’ve located a data cache, but it’s in a very bad place.]-
> > > Set up a mission with no objectives. Your crew sets up in the middle of the table. Randomly determine a foe from the [[Roving Threats]] table (core rules, p.101). No enemies begin on the table, but every round, during the Enemy Action phase, one basic enemy arrives from the centre of each of the four battlefield edges. At the end of each round, roll 1D6 and track the scores. If you have an Engineer among your crew, add +1 to the score. Once the score reaches 28, you can end the mission. Claim 1 Quest Rumor. You cannot progress the Quest until you complete this step.
> > 
> > > [!66–80 - A business contact might be able to help, but first:]-
> > > Set up a Protect mission. The enemy AI is changed to Aggressive. When the mission is completed, receive 1 Quest Rumor. Until the mission is completed, you cannot progress the Quest.
> > 
> > > [!81–92 - The enemy is massing.]-
> > > All future battles that are part of the Quest must add +1 to the number of enemies encountered (entry 54–65 above is unaffected). Add 1 Quest Rumor.
> > 
> > > [!93–100 - The enemy is becoming more determined.]-
> > > All future battles that are part of the Quest reduce the enemy Panic range by -1. Add 1 Quest Rumor.
> > 
> 
> #### Quest Conclusion
> 
>   Once you have unlocked the conclusion, you can go to it at any time. This final battle is always a Straight Up Fight with no Patron Special Conditions. You must add +1 to the number of enemies encountered, and the enemy is always accompanied by a [[Unique Individual]]. They will not test Morale during this battle – every opponent is here to fight to the death. 
>   
>   Completing the Quest awards you
>  - When rolling for credits, roll twice, pick the highest score, and add +1
>  - You may roll three times on the Loot table.
>  - You may add +1 story point.

> [!Get paid]-
> You earn 1D6 credits in pay, loot, bounty, or salvage. If you finished the final mission of a Quest, roll the die twice, pick the better score, and add +1 to the total. If you finished an [[Invasion Battle]], you receive no payment.
> 
> - Add +1 if the campaign is played in Easy mode.
> - If you Won the mission by completing your objective, treat any roll of 1 or 2 as a 3. Rival missions do not award this bonus for Winning.
> - If you did a Patron job, add the Pay bonus to the Danger Pay. Some Patrons will allow additional Benefits upon completion.

> [!Trade Salvage]-
> 
> Keep tally of how many units of Salvage you have obtained.
> 
> To determine what the Scrappers are willing to offer for your Salvage, carry out the following process:
> 
> 1. Roll three times on the Loot table.
> 2. For each result, roll 1D6 to determine how many units of Salvage you had to trade in. Treat a roll of a 1 as a 2. You may obtain any of the items you can afford. Note that you cannot convert Credits to Salvage units.
> 
> You can visit the Scrappers once per campaign turn and may opt to hang on to Salvage units if you don’t find anything that interests you.

> [!Battlefield finds]-
> If you Held the Field after the battle, you had an opportunity afterwards to search the battlefield for anything worth collecting. You may do so even if you failed to achieve or did not have an objective. This is in addition to any Loot you might be allowed to claim. You cannot roll on this table after an [[Invasion battle]].
> 
> Note that unless indicated by this table, you CANNOT acquire weapons from fallen opponents. The in-world reason – the foes drag their casualties away with them, the weapons are gene-locked to a particular user, or the weapons are destroyed in the fight – can be your choice, but you cannot remove them.
> 
> Roll D100 once on the table below, and add the resulting find to your inventory.
> 
> ### Battlefield Finds Table
> 
> | ROLL   | FIND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
> | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 1-15   | **Weapon**: Randomly select a slain (but not Bailed) enemy from the battle. You may keep any weapons they were carrying.                                                                                                                                                   |
> | 16-25  | **Usable goods**: Roll on the Consumables Table in the “Loot” chapter of the rules. You receive 1 dosage of the item indicated.                                                                                                                                            |
> | 26-35  | **Curious data stick / Invasion Evidence**: You obtain a Quest Rumor. If the enemy is an Invasion Threat, you instead find Invasion Evidence. Earn +1 credit, and add +1 when checking for Invasion in the next step.                                                      |
> | 36-45  | **Starship part**: Redeemable as equivalent to 2 credits only when installing a Starship Component (see page 60).                                                                                                                                                          |
> | 46-60  | **Personal trinket**: On each planet you visit in the future, roll 2D6. On a 9+ you find the owner and receive a Loot roll (p.131) as payment.                                                                                                                             |
> | 61-75  | **Debris**: 1D3 credits’ worth on the scrap market.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
> | 76-90  | **Vital info / Invasion Evidence**: Turn in this information to get a Corporate Patrons automatically on this world. If the enemy is an Invasion Threat, you instead find Invasion Evidence; if so, earn +1 credit and add +1 when checking for Invasion in the next step. |
> | 91-100 | **Nothing of value**: …not one thing!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> 

> [!Check for Salvage points of interest]-
> ## Points of Interest
> 
> First, there is a chance that you found something notable. For every Point of Interest you completed, roll 1D6:
> 
> | D6  | RESULT                                              |
> | --- | --------------------------------------------------- |
> | 1-4 | Just space junk                                     |
> | 5   | An interesting bit of tech worth 1 unit of Salvage. |
> | 6   | Something notable. Roll for a Discovery, below.     |
> ## Discoveries
> 
> | D100   | RESULT                                                                                         |
> | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 01-40  | You found something that might be valuable with some restoration. Roll once on the Loot table. |
> | 41-70  | Just a bit of scrap after all. Add 1 unit of Salvage.                                          |
> | 71-85  | Interesting data. Add 1 Quest Rumor.                                                           |
> | 86-100 | Valuable trinkets. Add 1D3 Credits.                                                            |
> 

> [!Check Faction Activity]-
> During the check for invasion step of each campaign turn, the Factions will perform activities if the world is not currently being invaded.
> 
> If you did a job directly for a Faction, always perform the Faction Struggle event. This does not occur for affiliated jobs. Once this is resolved, one randomly selected Faction performs an activity. 
> 
> This can be the same Faction again and could even be another Faction Struggle.
> 
> To determine the activity, roll D100 and consult the Faction Activity table below.
> 
> Note: Some activities have requirements. If the Faction does not meet these, the action does not take place, and nothing happens.
> Some activities target another Faction. This is selected randomly.
> 
> | D100  | FACTION ACTIVITY          | REQUIREMENTS             | NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
> | ----- | ------------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 01-10 | Consolidate power base    | –                        | Roll 1D6. If it is higher than Power, the Faction gains +1 Power.                                                                                                                                                                     |
> | 11-15 | Undermine Faction         | –                        | Target a Faction. Roll 1D6. If the roll is a 5-6, decrease their highest score by -1 (deciding randomly, if equal).                                                                                                                   |
> | 16-20 | Hostile take-over         | Influence 3+             | Target a Faction. Roll 1D6. If the roll is higher than their Influence, adjust target Influence by -1 and initiator Influence by +1.                                                                                                  |
> | 21-30 | Public relations campaign | –                        | Roll 1D6. If higher than Influence, it increases by +1.                                                                                                                                                                               |
> | 31-45 | Capitalize on events      | Successful job this turn | Add +1 to lowest of Influence and Power (deciding randomly, if equal).                                                                                                                                                                |
> | 46-55 | Lay low                   | –                        | No actions are taken.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
> | 56-60 | Defensive posture         | Power 3+                 | No actions are taken. The Faction negates any hostile action taken against it this campaign turn.                                                                                                                                     |
> | 61-75 | Faction struggle          | Power 3+                 | The faction initiates a struggle with another random faction. Roll 1D6+Power for each, adding +1 for a successful job this turn. The defeated Faction suffers -1 from the highest of Power or Influence (deciding randomly if equal). |
> | 76-80 | Office party              | –                        | Crew gain credits equal to their Loyalty rating.                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> | 81-90 | Plans within plans        | Influence 3+             | Crew offered a Quest.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
> | 91-00 | Day to day operations     | –                        | Crew offered a job next turn.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

> [!Check for invasion]-
> If the enemy you just battled is an Invasion Threat (listed in their profile in the “Battle” chapter), you must roll to see if the world is Invaded. Roll 2D6.
> 
> - Add +1 if you acquired Invasion Evidence in the previous step.
> - Modify by -1 if you Held the Field.
> - If the campaign’s difficulty mode is Hardcore, add +2.
> - If the campaign’s difficulty mode is Insanity, add +3.
> 
> On a score of 9+, the world is about to be Invaded! Next campaign turn, you must follow the Flee Invasion campaign step.

> [!Fringe World Strife:  Instability]-
> An Unstable world always maintains an Instability score which is tracked by the player. When you arrive on the world, it begins at +1 Instability.
> 
> During the Invasion step of every campaign turn:
> - Add 1D6 to the total.
> - Adjust the total by an additional +1 for every active Rival on this world.
> - Subtract -1 if you completed a Patron job this campaign turn.
> - Subtract -1 if you Held the Field against a Roving Threat this campaign turn.
> 
> If this causes Instability to reach or exceed 10, make a D100 roll on the table below, reduce the Instability score by the amount listed, and apply the listed effect:
> 
> #### Fringe World Strife
> 
> | D100 Result | Chaos Instability Reduction | Effect |
> |-------------|------------------------------|--------|
> | 01-10       | -5                           | While trying to go about your business, a bunch of ’roided-up hooligans cause a riot. You cannot perform any Explore or Trade crew actions during the next campaign turn. |
> | 11-24       | -5                           | Roll once on the [[Criminal Elements]] encounter subtable. This gang has set up shop threatening local businesses. Until you clear them out, all post-battle pay outs on this world are reduced by 1 Credit. Instead of taking another job, you can go after the gang at any time. No roll is required to find them. Set up a Fight Off mission (core rules, p.90). Add 1 Specialist and an Enemy Boss [[Unique Individual]] to the enemy force. Receive 1 Story Point if you kill the boss in Brawling combat. |
> | 25-36       | -5                           | A Converted Infiltrator squad has arrived on the planet. To go after them, use the Track crew action, similar to tracking down a Rival. If you find them, you may fight them as your job for this campaign turn. Set up a Fight Off mission (core rules, p.90). The enemy squad has a +1 Combat Skill and includes 1 additional Specialist. Until the squad has been destroyed, you must check for Invasion every campaign turn. |
> | 37-46       | -3                           | Tensions are getting out of hand, and people want to scrap. Add a Rival randomly selected from the [[Criminal Elements]] subtable. |
> | 47-54       | -7                           | During a running gun battle, your ship was caught in the crossfire and took a beating. Your ship takes 1D6+1 points of hull damage. |
> | 55-66       | -7                           | Next campaign turn, you will be attacked by scavengers. Resolve this as a Rival attack Raid scenario. Roll 1D6 to determine the attackers: <br>1-2: Raiders <br>3: Psychos <br>4-5: Pirates <br>6: Planetary Nomads <br>Add +2 to the enemy numbers. |
> | 67-72       | -10                          | The authorities decide to make examples of the crew. Unless you leave next campaign turn, roll three D6 in the Upkeep step, and discard every die rolling a 5 or a 6. Add the remaining dice together and pay that many credits in fines or have your ship confiscated. |
> | 73-86       | -10                          | The economy has fallen to pieces. For now, you cannot take Trade actions, and all mission pay-outs are -1 Credit. When collecting your payment after each mission, roll 1D6, adding +1 if you completed a Patron job, and +4 if you finished a Quest. On a result of 6+, the economic malaise is over. |
> | 87-94       | NA                           | An alien invasion force is en route, and everyone is scrambling to get away. After the next campaign turn, the world is automatically invaded. Roll 1D6 to determine who is coming: <br>1-2: Converted Acquisition <br>3: Abductor Raiders <br>4-5: Swarm Brood <br>6: K’Erin Colonists |
> | 95-100      | NA                           | The world erupts in a shooting war next campaign turn. If you opt to remain, you will be caught up in the fighting. Roll twice on the [[Interested Parties]] table . This represents the two sides struggling for control. You may side with either of them at your choice, but once chosen, you cannot switch sides. Each mission will be an Opportunity Mission against the opposing force. Add 2 additional regular enemies and 1 additional Specialist to the enemy force (for a total of 3 additional figures). You receive +1 Credit for each such mission undertaken. During the Check for Galactic War Progress step, roll on the table normally (core rules, p.126). A result of “Unity Victorious” indicates your faction has won the war. You receive 1D6 Credits in bonus pay (not to exceed the number of missions you have done) and due to your war-hero status, you may immediately remove 1 random Rival from your list. A result of “Lost to Unity” indicates your side lost. You must immediately try to leave next campaign turn, similar to if the world had fallen to invasion. If you are unable to leave, your ship and all Credits are confiscated before you are booted off-world on a shuttle. You may leave at any time before the war is over (i.e. you are not conscripted into service). Any result of “NA” means Instability is no longer tracked: The world has bigger problems to worry about.
> 

> [!Gather the loot]-
> Roll once on the Loot Table to see what you’ve earned. Some circumstances may offer additional rolls. If you just finished the final stage of a Quest, roll three times and claim all the items.
> 
> Note that some opponents may not logically carry anything of value. If so, you may assume the item is acquired in their lair, found en route, or is something you bartered for.
> 
> If you just played an [[Invasion Battle]], you receive no Loot.
> 
> ### Loot Table
> 
> | Roll Range | Category        | Description                                                                 |
> | ---------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 1-25       | Weapon          | Roll once on the [[Weapons Category Subtable]].                             |
> | 26-35      | Damaged Weapons | Roll twice on the [[Weapons Category Subtable]]. Both items require Repair. |
> | 36-45      | Damaged Gear    | Roll twice on [[Gear Subtable]]. Both items require Repair.                 |
> | 46-65      | Gear            | Roll once on the [[Gear Subtable]].                                         |
> | 66-80      | Odds and Ends   | Roll once on the [[Odds and Ends Subtable]].                                |
> | 81-100     | Rewards         | Roll once on the [[Rewards Subtable]].                                      |
> 

> [!Determine injuries and recovery]-
> If a character with luck would be slain through a roll on this table, they miraculously survive, but immediately lose **ALL** luck points. They can earn additional points as normal in the future. Unless this occurs, spent luck points are now recovered automatically.
> 
> > [!Medical Facilities Check]-
> > To determine if a planet has the required facilities, roll 1D6:
> > 
> > | Roll | Result                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
> > | ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> > | 1-2  | The world lacks proper medical facilities. A crew member must take a campaign action and roll 6+ on a 1D6+Savvy test. Success means they find an off-worlder willing to treat them for an additional 1 Credit fee (on top of the normal cost). |
> > | 3-6  | The world has suitable medical facilities and makes them accessible to people like you.                                                                                                                                                        |
> 
> > [!Organic Injury]-
> >
> > | Roll Result | Effects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Campaign Turns in Sick Bay |
> > | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
> > | 0-5         | **Death**: The character is slain. A random item they carried is damaged.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | NA                         |
> > | 6           | **Miraculous escape**: The character survives and receives +1 luck                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | NA                         |
> > | 7-12        | **Critical Strike**: If the character is wearing Armor, they survive, but the armor is damaged. Otherwise, they are slain.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 1D6+3                      |
> > | 14-16       | **Captured**: Add enemy as a Rival, Roll a D6 you must Track the Rival within that many turns to rescue your crew or they will be killed. Alternatively spend the number rolled on the D6+4 credits to pay a ransom. [[Roving threats]] will have dragged them to their lair to be eaten, ransom becomes cost in trackers wages and food to lure them away. | -                          |
> > | 16-20       | **Extensive Injury**: Requires specialized treatment. Roll 1D6+1 to determine the cost in credits. Until the cost is paid, the character cannot take crew tasks or fight. Sick Bay recovery time starts once treatment is received.                                                                                                                       | Identical to medical cost  |
> > | 21-30       | **Item Hit**: Randomly select a carried item and roll 1D6. On a 1-4, it is damaged. On a 5-6, it is destroyed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | –                          |
> > | 31-40       | **Lingering Injury**: Note that the character has a Lingering Injury once they recover. Before every mission, roll 1D6: On a 1, their old injury acts up, preventing participation in the battle. On a 2-5, they are fine. On a 6, they are fully recovered. Multiple lingering injuries require separate rolls.                                              | 1D6+1                      |
> > | 41-50       | **Injured Arm**: Count the character’s Combat Skill as 1 point lower (to a minimum of -1) when firing a non-Pistol weapon or Brawling. Costs 3 credits of medical treatment to remove this penalty.                                                                                                                                                       | 1D3                        |
> > | 51-60       | **Injured Leg**: Reduce the character’s Speed by 1”. Costs 3 credits of medical treatment to remove this penalty.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 1D3                        |
> > | 61-70       | **Injured Torso**: The character is always shocked even if they should have been stunned. Costs 3 credits of medical treatment to remove this penalty.                                                                                                                                                                                     | 1D3                        |
> > | 71-75       | **Serious Injury**: No side effects.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 1D3+1                      |
> > | 76-80       | **Minor Injury**: No side effects.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | 1                          |
> > | 81-95       | **Knocked Out**: No side effects.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 0                          |
> > | 96-00       | **School of Hard Knocks**: +1 XP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 0                          |
> 
> > [!Bot Injury Table]-
> > 
> > | ROLL | RESULT         | EFFECTS                                       | REPAIR TIME |
> > |------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|
> > | 1-5  | Obliterated     | Destroyed, and all carried equipment is damaged. | -           |
> > | 6-15 | Destroyed      | Destroyed                                     | -           |
> > | 16-30| Equipment loss | Random carried item is damaged                | 0           |
> > | 31-45| Severe damage  | No long-term effect                           | 1D6         |
> > | 46-65| Minor damage   | No long-term effect                           | 1           |
> > | 66-100| Just a few dents| No long-term effect                           | -           |
> ### A Bitter Day
> 
> If you Hold the Field after a battle, but one of your characters is killed, add +1 story point.

> [!Experience and character upgrades]-
> Each character that participated in a battle will now earn Experience Points. Characters “survived” if they did not become a casualty. Track the accumulated Experience Points for each character. Bots do not receive XP.
> 
> > [!Character’s Battle Result and Experience Gain]-
> > 
> > | **Character’s Battle Result**             | **Experience Gain** |
> > | ----------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
> > | Became a casualty                         | +1                  |
> > | Survived, but did not Win                 | +2                  |
> > | Survived and Won                          | +3                  |
> > | First character to inflict a casualty     | +1                  |
> > | Killed [[Unique Individual]]                  | +1                  |
> > | Campaign is on Easy mode                  | +1                  |
> > | Crew completed the final stage of a Quest | +1                  |
> > 
> > Any character that flees the battlefield in the first 2 rounds of the battle receives no XP.
> > 
> 
> > [!Ability Increase Table]-
> > 
> > | **Ability Score** | **XP Cost** | **Maximum Level** |
> > | ----------------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
> > | Reactions         | 8           | 4                 |
> > | Combat Skill      | 8           | +3                |
> > | Speed             | 5           | 8"                |
> > | Savvy             | 5           | +5                |
> > | Toughness         | 8           | 5                 |
> > | luck              | 10          | 3                 |
> > 
> > ### Restrictions
> > 
> > - No ability score can exceed the maximum value listed.
> > - Engineer characters cannot raise their Toughness above 4.
> > - Bot characters may install upgrades to any ability score by paying credits equal to the XP cost. Each ability score can be upgraded only once.
> > - Soulless use the normal XP process and cannot buy Bot upgrades.
> 
> > [!Psionic Advancement]-
> > 
> > In addition to the normal options for advancement, Psionic characters have the following additional options for spending Experience Points:
> > 
> > **Acquire Psionic Power (12 XP)**
> > Roll D10 and receive the psionic power indicated. If this indicates a power already known, modify the roll by +/- 1 and receive either power. If you have all three options thus available, you are unable to acquire a new power this campaign turn, but may save the XP for future turns.
> > 
> > **Power Enhancement (6 XP)**
> > Enhance any psionic power of your choice for an additional D6 to the casting roll whenever using that power. Powers can be enhanced in this way by only one D6 per power. Enhanced powers can be boosted by Strain normally.
> > 
> > Remember that Psionics cannot raise their Combat Skill through Experience Points.

> [!Invest in advanced training]-
> 
> > [!Experience and character upgrades]-
> > Each character that participated in a battle will now earn Experience Points. Characters “survived” if they did not become a casualty. Track the accumulated Experience Points for each character. Bots do not receive XP.
> > 
> > > [!Character’s Battle Result and Experience Gain]-
> > > 
> > > | **Character’s Battle Result**             | **Experience Gain** |
> > > | ----------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
> > > | Became a casualty                         | +1                  |
> > > | Survived, but did not Win                 | +2                  |
> > > | Survived and Won                          | +3                  |
> > > | First character to inflict a casualty     | +1                  |
> > > | Killed [[Unique Individual]]                  | +1                  |
> > > | Campaign is on Easy mode                  | +1                  |
> > > | Crew completed the final stage of a Quest | +1                  |
> > > 
> > > Any character that flees the battlefield in the first 2 rounds of the battle receives no XP.
> > > 
> 
> > [!Advanced Training Courses]-
> > 
> > | **Course**               | **Cost** | **Notes**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
> > | ------------------------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> > | Freelancer Certification | 15       | This counts as a permanent Patron License.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
> > | Instructor               | 10       | When any figure in the crew applies for future Advanced Training, you do not have to pay the 1 Credit application fee or roll for availability.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
> > | Survival Course          | 10       | If subjected to a trap, hazard, or environmental threat, the character may evade any damage on a D6 roll of 4+. This is in addition to any other defences or rolls allowed.                                                                                                                                                                             |
> > | Well Connected                    | 15       | When taking a Find a Patron, Recruit, or Track crew action, add +1 to the roll.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
> > | Tactical Course          | 15       | When activated, the character may take their actions before moving.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
> > | Pilot Training           | 20       | If a Starship Travel event calls for a Savvy test, you may roll 2D6, pick the better die, and add +2 to the score.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> > | Mechanic Training        | 15       | If your ship is in need of Repairs, you may repair +1 Hull Point damage every campaign turn (meaning 2 points of damage are repaired per campaign turn). Engineers count any XP spent as double value for obtaining this.                                                                                                                               |
> > | Medical School           | 20       | After each battle, you may nominate a casualty that will roll twice on the Injury Table, picking the better result. This crew member must have been in the battle and must not have become a casualty. If your ship has a Shuttle, you can evac fast enough that this crew member can apply their skill even if they did not participate in the battle. |
> > | Merchant School          | 10       | When this crew member Trades, you may reroll one Trade roll each campaign turn. The new roll must be accepted and if the new roll offers a choice of whether to buy an item, you must accept. You may roll up all eligible Trade rolls before choosing what to reroll.                                                                                  |
> > | Security Training        | 10       | If this crew member is part of your squad when fighting a battle, you may add +1 when rolling to Seize the Initiative. Ferals can obtain this training at -2 Cost.                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> > | Broker Training          | 15       | When rolling to obtain licenses, Advanced Training applications, or searching for Patrons, add +1 to the roll.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
> > | Bot Technician           | 10       | All Bot upgrades cost 1 credit less. If a Bot or Soulless character must roll for a post-battle injury, you may roll twice, picking the better result.                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
> > 

> [!Purchase Items]-
> 
> You may pay 3 credits to receive a roll on the Military Weapon Table, Gear Table, or Gadget Table in the Character Creation chapter.
> 
> - You may purchase more than one roll per campaign turn.
> - You may purchase any number of Hand Guns, Blades, Colony Rifles, or Shotguns for 1 credit each.
> - You may sell up to 3 undamaged items, earning 1 credit for each.
> 
> Armor can be modified to fit Krag characters for 2 credits (and reversed for the same cost), while doing your shopping.
> 
> > [!It’s Just Scrap Metal, Right?]-
> > 
> > When purchasing any of the following, you may cash in salvage from salvage missions to offset the cost in credits. 1 unit of Salvage equals 1 Credit ONLY when purchasing:
> > - Ship repairs
> > - Ship modules
> > - Bot upgrades
> 
> > [!Bot Upgrades]-
> > Any of the following upgrades may be applied to a Bot character for the listed cost during post-battle step 11: Purchase Items. Only one upgrade can be installed per campaign turn. The Bot technician Advanced Training applies to these costs.
> > 
> > A Bot character can have one of each upgrade installed over time. They are lost if the character is permanently destroyed (“Killed”), and cannot later be replaced or transferred. Note that Soulless characters cannot use these upgrades, as their physical shells use a different technological base.
> > 
> > ## BOT UPGRADE NOTES
> > 
> > | **UPGRADE** | **COST** |
> > |-------------|----------|
> > | **Built-in weapon** | Any weapon available may be built into the chassis. This negates the Heavy and Clumsy traits on the weapon. Once built-in, 1 Credit must be spent to revert the weapon to regular usage again. 3 Credits per Shot on weapon profile +1 Credit per point of weapon Damage. |
> > | **Improved armor casing** | Improve the Bot’s built-in Armor Saving Throw to 5+. 5 Credits |
> > | **Deflection module** | The Bot’s built-in saving throw becomes both a Screen and Armor, allowing a save to be made as long as the attack does not negate both forms of defense. 8 Credits |
> > | **Jump module** | The Bot may replace any portion of movement (including Dash movement) by a Jump of equal distance. For example, jumping 3” in any direction would use up 3” of available movement. Jumping does not affect or restrict other actions. 6 Credits |
> > | **Multi-wave scanner** | Add +1 to all rolls to Seize the Initiative. Cumulative with a party-carried [[Motion Tracker]]. 10 Credits |
> > | **Broad spectrum vision** | The Bot can see through darkness, smoke, fog, gas and other impediments normally, and without penalty. 6 Credits |
> > 
> 
> > [!Psionic Equipment]-
> > 
> > | **ITEM** | **EFFECT** | **ITEM TYPE** | **COST** |
> > |----------|------------|---------------|----------|
> > | **Warding Shrel** | An odd Precursor device. If the wearer would suffer the effects of psionic Strain, the effect is avoided, and the device shuts down for the rest of the battle. Trying to carry two Shrels will cancel the effects of both, due to a sub-harmonic neurology wave cascade. Very distressing. | Utility | 10 Credits |
> > | **Psionic Focus** | A wrist-mounted device that helps channel psionic waves. Add +1” to the range of all powers. | Utility | 10 Credits |
> > | **Nullification surgery** | The character permanently loses all psionic abilities. This is non-reversible. (What circumstance could lead to such a choice…?) | Implant | 3 Credits |
> 
> > [!Ship Components]-
> > 
> > | **Component**              | **Credits** | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
> > | -------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
> > | Medical Bay                | 25                     | Fully stocked medical facility to aid long-term recovery. Each campaign turn when recovering from Injuries, select a crew member who can mark off 2 campaign turns of recovery time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
> > | Cargo Hold                 | 15                     | The hold of the ship has been upgraded to be environmentally stable. When traveling to a new planet, you may take on cargo. Roll 2D6 and discard any 5-6. Select the highest remaining die and earn that many credits from delivering a shipment to the new world. If both dice are discarded, no shipments are available. If your ship is damaged in transit, the cargo is also lost.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
> > | Database                   | 10                     | Extensive data records have been added to aid in decision making. When traveling to a new planet, you may roll up the details for one additional planet, and then select which to visit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
> > | Shuttle                    | 15                     | Launch bay with a standard “Lemon Shark” shuttle for quick deployments. If you receive the Distress Call starship travel event, you may roll twice and pick the higher roll. If a planet is Invaded, you may add +2 to the roll to get off-world.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> > | Merchant Link              | 20                     | Access point to the corporate extra-net framework in order to help in diversifying risk-managed portfolios during times of economic volatility. You may carry out one free Trade action each campaign turn, without requiring a crew member to be assigned to it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> > | Drop Launcher              | 25                     | Rapid deploy system, adapted from Unity military vessels. When setting up a battle, roll 2D6. On an 8+, Drop deploy is viable. Select up to two crew figures who will land using this method. They do not set up at the beginning of the battle. Instead, at the end of any round, select a point on the tabletop, move it 1D6” in a random direction, and then set up both characters within 1” of the final marker. They cannot act on arrival, but will act normally in the following round.                                                                                                                                                |
> > | Probe Launcher             | 10                     | Launching device for scientific probes. If you receive the Asteroids starship travel event, you can roll twice to avoid the field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
> > | Auto-Turrets               | 15                     | Auto-tracking Hyper-Laser turret, calibrated for Semi-Autonomous Pulse Fire. If you receive the Raided starship travel event, you may add +1 to the roll to avoid the battle. If you have to flee from a world that is being Invaded, you may add +1 to the roll.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> > | Military Nav System        | 15                     | Improved navigation system, adapted from the old Sirius modules commonly available on the second-hand markets. If you roll the Navigation Trouble starship travel event, you do not have to subtract 1 story point. If you roll the Travel-Time Starship Travel event, you may receive the benefits of both that event AND Uneventful Trip.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
> > | Improved Shielding         | 20                     | Additional armor plating, along with directional screen generators. If your ship would sustain damage from any source, reduce the damage by 1 Hull Point. Note that the Asteroids Starship Travel event potentially inflicts multiple Hits with the Improved Shielding protecting against each.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
> > | Hidden Compartment         | 15                     | Just shift that deck plate to the side and reach under it, while turning that bolt a bit. If you receive the Patrol Ship starship travel event, you only have to roll once for confiscated items. Each time you travel to a new Planet, you may roll 3D6. Discard any dice that do not score a 1 or 2, then receive credits equal to the sum of the dice that did not get discarded.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
> > | Suspension Pod             | 15                     | Standard for non-jump travel. When managing Upkeep, you may opt to Suspend any crew members. They do not participate in any events, cannot undertake tasks or go on missions, do not recover from Injuries, and do not require Upkeep. While Suspended, the character doesn’t count as part of the crew. You can have up to 4 crew members Suspended at any one time. During any Upkeep step of a future campaign turn, you can revive any Suspended crew. They must be counted as part of your crew during the Upkeep step of that campaign turn, and will act normally thereafter. Any Injuries must still be recovered from normally after revival. |
> > | Living Quarters            | 15                     | Improved living quarters for improved comforts, as well as more efficient life support systems. When determining Upkeep for your crew, you may count your crew as having two crew members less than normal.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
> > | Military Fuel Converters   | 15                     | Once fitted, these devices allow a wide range of readily available matter to be converted into Jump fuel. Starship travel costs are reduced by 2 credits.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
> > | Expanded Database          | 10                     | Constantly updated database system with AI-assistance in correlating information. When rolling to progress an active Quest (Post-Battle Step 3), add +1 to the roll.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
> > | Scientific Research System | 10                     | A robust system to gather samples from space debris, analyse them, extrapolate anything of interest, and correlate it to current interests. Whenever you undertake travel to another world, you may roll 1D6: 1-2, Nothing found; 3-4, Research data analysed (worth 2 credits); 5-6, add 1 Quest Rumor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
> > ### Optional cost:
> **Miniaturized Components:** State-of-the-art, light-weight components to maintain fuel efficiency. The component is not counted towards increased fuel costs. Once applied to a component, this cannot be removed.
>  >- Fresh Component Install: 5 credits
>  >- Retrofit Existing Component: 8 credits

> [!Roll for a campaign event]-
> Apply the result immediately. In some cases, an event may seem not to make any sense. If so, adjust or ignore it, as necessary.
> 
> Crews that finished a Quest this campaign turn will receive two Campaign Events
> 
> | **ROLL** | **EVENT**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
> | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 1-3      | **You’ve met a friendly doc who doesn’t ask too many questions.** Select up to two crew members in Sick Bay and reduce their Recovery time by one campaign turn each. If they recover, they can act normally next campaign turn.                                                                                                      |
> | 4-8      | **The life support system on the ship needs upgrading badly.** Upgrading the life support system will cost 1D6 credits. The ship cannot be flown until this is paid. If your crew has an Engineer, modify the roll by -1.                                                                                                             |
> | 9-12     | **A chance meeting turns into a new ally.** Roll up a new character and add them to the crew, OR add +1 story point\|. You may decide after rolling up the new character.                                                                                                                                                             |
> | 13-16    | **You’ve made friends among the locals.** +1 story point\|.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 17-20    | **You managed to mouth off to the wrong people.** Add a Rival.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
> | 21-23    | **An old nemesis has tracked you down.** Select a prior Rival, or roll up a new one. They will follow you from planet to planet until resolved and receive +1 when rolling for the number of enemies in a battle.                                                                                                                     |
> | 24-26    | **A shady character offers you a deal.** Give him any one item of equipment, then roll on the Trade Table (p.79).                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
> | 27-30    | **You sell off some cargo you acquired on the last planet.** Earn 1D6 credits.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
> | 31-35    | **One of the crew overheard something interesting.** Add 1 Rumor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
> | 36-38    | **You’ve managed to settle some old “business”.** If you have any, you may remove one Rival of your choice. If you have no Rivals, your captain earns +1 XP instead.                                                                                                                                                                  |
> | 39-41    | **An admirer wants to come along.** Gain a new crew member, if desired. They have only the base profile with no extra rolls, and bring no equipment. If your crew has any Feral members, the new member is also Feral.                                                                                                                |
> | 42-44    | **An alien merchant offers you some strange device.** If you want to buy it, pay 4 credits and then roll on the Loot Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 45-48    | **Equipment malfunction.** If there are any items in your Stash, a random item is damaged and must be Repaired.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
> | 49-51    | **You’ve earned a bit of a bad reputation.** If you know any patrons on the current world, randomly select one that will no longer work with you. If you have no patrons, shrug and move on.                                                                                                                                          |
> | 52-56    | **The tax man is taking an interest in your business conduct.** Roll 2D6 and pay the higher die in credits. If you have insufficient credits your ship is impounded until you can pay.                                                                                                                                                |
> | 57-59    | **The crew has decided it’s time for a new person to be in charge.** Select a crew member to be the new captain. They immediately receive 3 XP. Roll 1D6. On a 1, the old captain leaves the campaign permanently, taking any items carried with them. If your crew has any K’Erin, one of them must be selected, or they will leave. |
> | 60-63    | **You’ve made some business contacts.** Add a new patron to the list of those known.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
> | 64-66    | **Recent events made for a good learning opportunity.** Every crew member receives +1 XP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
> | 67-70    | **During routine maintenance, the gravitational adjuster got knocked out of alignment.** Your ship suffers 1D6 points of Hull Point damage.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 71-74    | **The crew spends a night drinking, watching movies, and playing cards.** +1 story point\|.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 75-78    | **You meet up with an old arms dealer contact who owes you a deal.** Add your choice of 3 weapons from the following list: Hand Cannons, Military Rifles, Shotguns, or Machine Pistols.                                                                                                                                               |
> | 79-81    | **You renegotiate some old debts.** If you currently owe money, reduce your debt by 1D6+1 credits. If you owe nothing, earn 2 credits for being prudent with your money.                                                                                                                                                              |
> | 82-84    | **The sector news networks are awash with rumors of war.** While you remain on this planet, any roll for Invasion is at +2.                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 85-88    | **A bit of time on your hands** The crew has a few days to do their own thing. Select two crew members at random and have each make a roll on the Exploration Table (p.80).                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 89-91    | **You got noticed by someone you’d rather avoid.** Add a Rival. If you currently are on a Quest, the next campaign turn is automatically a battle against the new Rival, and they will add +1 to the number of enemies.                                                                                                               |
> | 92-94    | **It’s time to go!** Whatever you did, every campaign turn you stay on this planet, you must add an additional Rival.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
> | 95-97    | **Unity government says no ships are authorized to leave.** You cannot leave the planet during the next two campaign turns.                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 98-100   | **In hindsight, it’ll make a great story.** Select a crew member who was a casualty last battle. They receive +1 luck. If nobody got hurt, receive +1 story point\| instead.                                                                                                                                                          |
> 

> [!Roll for a character event]-
> If a random party member gets into a fight or argument, it will always be a Krag if one is present in the crew. Any such event cannot be bypassed or rerolled using Story Points. 
> 
> | **ROLL** | **EVENT**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
> | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | 1-3      | **All this endless violence is depressing you.** The character refuses to participate in any battle during the next campaign turn (except for an [[Invasion battle]]). Get +1 story point, as they get a new perspective on life. K’Erin are unaffected by this.                                                                                                                                                            |
> | 4-6      | **You have some business to attend to elsewhere.** The character is unavailable for the next two campaign turns. They require no Upkeep during this time, and cannot be the target of any events. When they return, award them 1D6 XP, and roll once on the Loot Table. If the character is Swift, they never return but are replaced with a brand new Swift character rolled up normally.                              |
> | 7-10     | **You make some local friends.** The character earns +1 XP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
> | 11-12    | **You are starting to wonder if it is time to move on.** If the character is currently in Sick Bay, roll 1D6. If the roll is equal or below the number of campaign turns of recovery left, they will decide to leave the crew.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
> | 13-15    | **You get a letter from home.** The character earns +1 XP. Roll 1D6. On a 5-6 you immediately receive a Quest.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
> | 16-19    | **You argue with the rest of the crew.** During the next campaign turn, the crew member refuses to do any tasks but will participate in battle normally.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
> | 20-23    | **You get in a scrap with another crew member.** Randomly select another crew member and roll 1D6+Combat Skill for each. The lower score must spend one campaign turn in Sick Bay. On a draw, both go to Sick Bay. If a K’Erin is in the crew, you must fight them.                                                                                                                                                     |
> | 24-26    | **The local food is sitting well with you.** If in Sick Bay, reduce your recovery time by one campaign turn. If not, earn +1 XP. Engineers receive no benefit from this.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
> | 27-29    | **You are not sure you are really the same person any longer.** Roll on the Motivation Table and change to that motivation. You do not receive any items or resources, but if the new motivation would have any ability score bonuses, earn +1 XP for each +1 ability score you would have received normally. If you roll the current motivation, the character becomes particularly self-assured. Earn +1 story point. |
> | 30-33    | **It is time for a make-over!** The character changes their clothes, hair-style, or something else. This is only cosmetic. If you are able to, reflect this on the miniature.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 34-38    | **Overhear something useful.** Earn 1 Quest Rumor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> | 39-41    | **Earn a little on the side.** Receive +2 credits.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> | 42-45    | **Have a heart to heart talk with a crew member.** Select a random crew member. Both earn +1 XP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
> | 46-48    | **Time spent exercising is never wasted.** Earn +2 XP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
> | 49-51    | **You pick up an unusual hobby.** Earn +1 story point and the character talks about it constantly. If the character is Swift or Precursor, they also earn +2 XP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
> | 52-55    | **The scars tell the story.** If the character was injured in any way last or this campaign turn, they earn +2 XP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> | 56-59    | **You’ve had time to reflect on your adventures.** Earn +1D3 XP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
> | 60-62    | **You’ve made a real personal breakthrough.** Select one ability score that has not been increased from its starting value when the character entered the campaign. It increases by +1 immediately.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
> | 63-66    | **You get hurt while working on the ship.** Spend one campaign turn in Sick Bay, and the ship takes 1 Hull Point damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
> | 67-68    | **You have finally found true love in this bleak universe.** If the character's motivation was True Love, they earn +1D6 XP. Regardless, get +1 story point. And it’s a rather nice thought, isn’t it?                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
> | 69-71    | **A personal enemy has tracked you down.** Add a Rival. If this character leaves your crew, the Rival also leaves.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> | 72-75    | **Someone has sent you a gift.** Roll once on the Loot Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> | 76-78    | **You feel great. Eating well must be paying off.** Put a note on your record sheet: Next time this character would be forced to roll on the Injury Table, the roll is ignored. Engineers cannot benefit from this event.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
> | 79-82    | **You know someone who knows someone.** Add a Patron.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
> | 83-84    | **Maybe you are leading a charmed existence?** Add +1 luck.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
> | 85-87    | **You’ve put in a lot of hard work around here.** Either repair 2 Hull Point damage or repair one damaged item in the inventory. Engineers may do both.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
> | 88-91    | **They don’t make them like they used to.** A random item carried by the character is damaged, and must be Repaired before it can be used again. Engineers are not affected by this event.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
> | 92-94    | **Where did it go?** A random item carried by the character has been lost. When rolling for a Character Event next campaign turn, roll 1D6+Savvy as well. On a 5+, the item turns up again, otherwise it is lost for good.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
> | 95-97    | **A deep feeling of melancholy and despair is afflicting you.** The character will earn no XP next campaign turn. K’Erin are not affected by this event.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
> | 98-100   | **You’ve had a lot of time to burn.** Next campaign turn, the character may perform an additional action, even if they are in Sick Bay.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
> 

> [!Roll for a Faction Event]-
> 
> > [!Faction Events]-
> > 
> > After rolling for crew and campaign events, roll D100 on the following table for a Faction event.  
> > If a specific Faction needs to be determined, pick one at random from the Factions on the current world.
> > 
> > | D100  | FACTION EVENT                      | NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
> > | ----- | ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> > | 01-07 | New Faction                        | A new Faction emerges. Generate it from scratch but roll only 1D3 for Power and Influence. It automatically offers you a job next turn.                                                                                                                    |
> > | 08-14 | Shoot out                          | Two Factions are having it out in the streets. Randomly select both and roll 1D6+Power. The loser cannot offer a job next turn and cannot attempt any activity. They suffer -1 from their highest value of Power or Influence (Power, if equal).           |
> > | 15-19 | Tensions rising                    | Faction jobs next turn increase Danger Pay by +1 Credit.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
> > | 20-27 | Truce                              | Calm reigns. Next turn, no Faction activities occur.                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
> > | 28-34 | Power base                         | A random Faction increases the lowest of its scores by +1. Select randomly, if equal.                                                                                                                                                                      |
> > | 35-42 | Tip off                            | A random Faction grants you a Quest Clue in the hope of future favours.                                                                                                                                                                                     |
> > | 43-49 | Befriending the leadership         | The Faction you have the highest loyalty towards is getting chummy. Add +1 story point.                                                                                                                                              |
> > | 50-55 | New Leadership                     | A random Faction has a new person in charge. You can use the character creation tables to determine who they are if you like. Roll 1D6 for each of Influence and Power: A 1 indicates the score suffers a -1 drop, while a 6 indicates it increases by +1. |
> > | 56-60 | Outside interference               | A random Faction must roll 1D6. If the roll exceeds Power, it suffers -1 Influence.                                                                                                                                                                        |
> > | 61-65 | Internal struggle                  | A random Faction must roll 1D6. On a 1, it suffers -1 Influence. On a 6, it suffers -1 Power.                                                                                                                                                              |
> > | 66-72 | Public display of support          | A random Faction gains +1 Influence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
> > | 73-79 | Armed to the teeth                 | A random Faction gains +1 Power.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
> > | 80-87 | A little visit                     | If you participated in an attack on a Faction this or last turn, they send an Enforcer Rival after you.                                                                                                                                                    |
> > | 88-93 | We thought we would do you a favour | Do you have 3+ Loyalty? If so, a random Faction you are loyal to eliminates one of your Rivals.                                                                                                                                                        |
> > | 94-00 | Dark secrets                       | A random Faction sends you on a Quest targeting one of their enemies. If you complete it successfully, the target Faction suffers -1 Influence and -1 Power. You receive +2 Loyalty for completing the Quest.                                              |
> > 
> 
> > [!Faction Destruction]-
> > If either Power or Influence is reduced to 0, the Faction ceases to exist. All Loyalty is removed. 
> > 
> > If a Faction was destroyed by a Faction Struggle and you had Loyalty of 4+ to the winner, you receive a Rival (from the [[Hired Muscle]] table) as vengeful elements of the defeated Faction go after you to settle some scores. If you took a Faction job for the winner in the same battle round, add +2 Loyalty.  
> > 
> > Every time a Faction is destroyed, every remaining Faction rolls 1D6+Power. The highest score gains +1 Influence (on a draw, both receive +1 Influence).
> 

> [!Check for Galactic War progress]-
> If you are tracking any planets that were previously Invaded, roll 2D6 and consult the following table:
> 
> | ROLL | RESULT              | EFFECT                                                                                       |
> |------|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | 2-4  | Lost to Unity       | The planet is lost to the invaders and cannot be visited again.                               |
> | 5-7  | Contested           | No progress.                                                                                  |
> | 8-9  | Making Ground       | Add +1 to all future rolls on this table.                                                     |
> | 10+  | Unity Victorious    | The planet can now be visited again. Due to increased troop presence, all future Invasion Threat rolls on this world are at -2. |
> 