
> [!Credits]-
> 
> A generic Unity-backed form of monetary unit, credits are accepted virtually everywhere, and can be traded for most goods. Likewise, a complex system of barter is in place allowing all manner of unlikely items to be traded from one corner of the galaxy to the other. In the campaign game, we simplify this all into the credit.
> 
> Credits are accumulated in a single pool for your crew, accessible by any crew member at any time. You do not need to track what money each character is carrying, and credits are never lost due to casualties.
> 
> If anything is worth less than 1 credit, then it is assumed to be irrelevant to the campaign game. Your crew may have any number of martini glasses, holo-stims, and fancy cigars.

> [!Experience Points]-
> 
> Characters progress in the game by various methods – by acquiring better ships, better weapons, better equipment – but also by earning Experience Points (XP) from events and completing missions. Unlike the crew’s Stash of equipment or credits, which may be shared between crew members, track each character’s XP individually. When they have enough, they will be able to spend them to buy Character Upgrades, which increase that character’s statistics.

> [!Quest Rumours]-
> You may obtain Quest Rumours (also referred to simply as Rumours) in the campaign, as well as during character creation. You should also track Rumours as a single pool for the whole crew. Each campaign turn you will roll to see if the Rumours lead to a Quest. If your crew is on an active Quest, any new Rumours you obtain will help towards the resolution of the Quest you are currently on.
> 
> For flavour, roll D10 to determine what nature the Rumor takes. This does not affect gameplay.
> 
> | ROLL | RUMOR IS                         |
> |------|----------------------------------|
> | 1-2  | An extracted data file           |
> | 3-4  | Notebook with secret information |
> | 5-6  | Old map showing a location       |
> | 7-8  | A tip from a contact             |
> | 9-10 | An intercepted transmission      |
> 