

> [!Player Movement]-
> The Battle stage of each campaign round is split into phases. Player characters acting within each phase can act in any order desired. When acting, a figure may make a Movement Action and then perform a combat action. A figure may opt to forego either option, but cannot perform them in reverse order.
> 
> Some activities are Free Actions, such as using a consumable item. A character can perform one Free Action without inhibiting their other activities. Carrying out two Free Actions in the same round requires foregoing the combat action.
> 
> > [!Stun]-
> > 
> > - If a figure is Stunned, they may either Move OR take a Combat Action on their turn but cannot do both.
> > - A figure can have only one Stun marker. Duplicate markers are ignored.
> > - After the figure activates, the Stun marker is removed.
> 
> > [!Shock]-
> > Shocked figures ignore stun results.
> > 
> > **If a figure is Shocked when they activate, they must act as follows:**
> > - If they are in the open and in sight of enemy figures, they must move towards the closest terrain where they would obtain cover.
> > - If they are in cover and in sight of enemy figures, if they can move in such a way to break line of sight from at least one enemy, they must do so.
> > - In all other circumstances, they remain in place.
> > - Shocked figures do not take a Combat Action.
> > 
> > After the figure activates, the Shock marker is removed.
> 
> > [!Movement Action]-
> > When moving, a figure may move up to their Speed in tabletop inches. Terrain features do not typically reduce movement speeds, but Difficult terrain will consume an additional 1” of movement allowance for every full 2” moved in it.
> > 
> > Opening doors costs 1” of movement. Climbing through a window or hole costs 2”.
> > 
> > A figure cannot move directly through another figure at any time.
> 
> > [!Vertical movement, jumping, falling and leaping]-
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Moving Up and Down]-
> > > Vertical obstacles can be traversed by simply paying the height of the obstacle in inches. For example, crossing a 2” tall wall uses 2” of movement allowance.
> > > 
> > > A descent of 1” or less can be performed for free. Any longer drop requires the character to either climb down. (with the same cost as climbing up), or Jump.
> > > 
> > > Skulker characters: When moving, they may ignore any obstacle up to 1” in height and do not count the first 1” of any climb for movement reduction purposes.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Jumping]-
> > > - Jumping does not require any available movement, meaning a character can move to an edge and Jump down.
> > > - Jumping down more than 1” ends the character's round.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Falling]-
> > > - Jumping down more than 1” ends the character's round.
> > > - Jumping (a fall is just a jump you did not intend!) down 3” or further inflicts a Damage +0 Hit with +1 Damage added for each additional 2”.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Leaping]-
> > > - Characters can leap over a gap up to 2” wide, counting it as part of their standard movement.
> > > - Swift characters may leap over gaps up to 4”.
> > 
> 
> > [!Random and Alternative Movement]-
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Random Movement]-
> > > A battle event or effect may cause a character to move randomly. Unless stated otherwise, determine the direction of movement and then move the figure its full standard movement distance in a straight line. The character will halt and become Stunned if they contact a terrain feature.
> > > 
> > > If a randomly moving character collides with another character, the moving character comes to a halt and is Stunned. The character collided with is pushed 1” along the direction of movement and then Stunned.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Alternative Movement Actions]-
> > > Some characters may have access to different modes of movement that replace their normal movement, such as powered jumps or teleportation. Using an Alternative Movement Action replaces the normal Movement Action. The character may decide which movement to use each round.
> > > 
> > > A teleporting character that would materialize inside a solid object suffers a spatial shift. Move them 2D6” in a random direction. The character receives a Stun marker when this happens. If the new location is also inside an object, repeat the process and place a Shock marker. In the event a character would emerge in a location occupied by another character, the occupying character is Stunned instead, and the teleporting character suffers a spatial shift.
> > > 
> > > A character that materializes over an Impassable terrain feature such as a lava lake, toxic sludge pool, or similar, becomes a casualty and is removed from the battlefield.
> > > 
> > > Swift characters may glide down from a height. Pick a location that is below the current position of the figure and no farther away horizontally than the difference in the heights of the two locations. Place the figure at the new location. Resolve this as part of the Alternative Movement Action.
> > > 
> > > Simply Jumping down is a Free Action for a Swift. Gliding counts as a Swift’s Movement Action.
> > 
> 
> > [!Arc of Fire]-
> > 
> > All figures have an Arc of Fire to their front. 
> > - This is 90 degrees. 
> > - If the only ranged weapons carried are Pistols, the Arc of Fire is 180 degrees.
> > - Player figures can face in any direction at the end of a move action. 
> > - Enemies will face in the direction they moved if no enemies are visible. 
> > - Enemies that are able to fire at a target will always turn to face the target.
> 
> > [!Dash]-
> > Characters that do not intend to take a Combat Action can Dash, allowing them to move an additional 2”. 
> > 
> > Enemies will do so to reach cover or move into range. An enemy with a ranged weapon will not Dash if they are able to fire at a target.
> 
> 