
>[!Enemy Movement]-
> 
> The way the enemy moves on the field requires the player to inject a modest amount of “artificial intelligence” into proceedings. It is assumed that the player will make decisions based on what is reasonable, but can also operate enemies according to one of seven broad AI types, shown below. It is up to the player to decide how strictly to adhere to these.
> 
> > [!Enemy Overwatch]-
> > 
> > - Enemies with ranged weapons that end their activation unable to see a target roll 1D6.
> >   - On a 5-6 they enter Overwatch.
> >   - Enemies with Defensive or Cautious AI do so on a 4-6.
> > - Enemies on Overwatch will fire immediately the first time a target becomes visible to them and is within their Arc of Fire.
> > - The status lasts until the figure activates next, is hit by an attack, or engaged in a brawl.
> > - Overwatch fire is resolved normally but hits only on a natural 6.
> 
> > [!How to Use movement tables]-
> > 
> > - Enemies activate in the normal order.
> > - When an enemy figure is selected to act, check if the base condition for the AI type applies. If it does, it will take the listed action. Otherwise, roll 1D6 to determine what actions the enemy takes.
> > - Resolve all actions by each figure completely before the next enemy is selected to act.
> > ## Group Actions
> > - Any group of enemies where a given figure is within 2” of another – for example in a skirmish line – will obey the same die roll instead of rolling for each figure.
> > - If any figure in the group would be subject to the base condition, they all follow that option.
> > ## Impossible or Stupid Actions
> > The system may suggest an action that is impossible to carry out or which would make no sense in the current context of the game. In such circumstances, the player will have to inject some logic. After all, enemies will not wander off cliff-sides or charge into lava pools. If in doubt, the figure will remain in place and fire at a visible target.
> 
> > [!Cautious]-
> > **Base condition:** If in Cover and visible opponents are within 12”, move away to the most distant position that remains in Cover and in range and retains Line of Sight to an opponent, then fire.
> > 
> >> [!Alternative behaviour]-
> > > | ROLL | ACTION                                                                               |
> > > | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
> > > | 1    | Retreat a full move, remaining in Cover. Maintain Line of Sight if possible. |
> > > | 2    | Remain in place or manoeuvre within current Cover to fire.                        |
> > > | 3    | Remain in place or manoeuvre within current Cover to fire.                        |
> > > | 4    | Advance to within 12" of the nearest enemy and fire. Remain in Cover.            |
> > > | 5    | Advance to within 12" of the nearest enemy and fire. Remain in Cover.            |
> > > | 6    | Advance on the nearest enemy and fire, ending in Cover if possible.              |
> > > Notes:
> > > - **Next forward position:** The next Cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question.
> > > - **Use Cover:** The figure will attempt to remain in Cover or out of sight. A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into Cover. The figure will only end a move out of Cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures.
> > > - **Manoeuvre within Cover:** The figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in Cover). If the figure is not in Cover currently, it will move to find Cover, Dashing if needed.
> 
> > [!Aggressive]-
> > **Base condition:** If able to engage an opponent in brawling combat this round, advance to do so.
> > > [!Alternative movement]-
> >> | ROLL | ACTION                                                                                 |
> > |------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> > | 1    | Manoeuvre within current cover to fire.                                                 |
> > | 2    | Manoeuvre within current cover to fire.                                                 |
> > | 3    | Advance to the next forward position in cover. Fire if eligible.                       |
> > | 4    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use cover.                                      |
> > | 5    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Fastest route.                                  |
> > | 6    | Dash towards the nearest enemy. Fastest route.                                         |
> > Notes:
> >> - **Next forward position:** The next cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question.
> >> - **Use cover:** The figure will attempt to remain in cover or out of sight. A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into cover. The figure will only end a move out of cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures.
> > >- **Manoeuvre within cover:** The figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in cover). If the figure is not in cover currently, it will move to find cover, Dashing if needed.
> 
> > [!Tactical]-
> > **Base condition:** If in cover and within 12” of visible opponents, remain in position and fire.
> > 
> >> [!Alternative Movement]-
> >> 
> > > | ROLL | ACTION                                                                                  |
> > > |------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> > > | 1    | Remain in place to fire.                                                                |
> > > | 2    | Maneuver within current cover to fire.                                                  |
> > > | 3    | Advance to the next forward position in cover or move to flank.                         |
> > > | 4    | Advance to the next forward position in cover or move to flank.                         |
> > > | 5    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use cover.                                       |
> > > | 6    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use cover.                                       |
> > > Notes:
> > > - **Next forward position:** The next cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question.
> > > - **Use cover:** The figure will attempt to remain in cover or out of sight. A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into cover. The figure will only end a move out of cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures.
> > > - **Manoeuvre within cover:** The figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in cover). If the figure is not in cover currently, it will move to find cover, Dashing if needed.
> 
> > [!Rampaging]-
> > - Rampaging enemies will move as fast as possible towards the closest opponent, and will always attempt to enter Brawling combat.
> > - Rampagers with Heavy weapons will stand and fire, if in sight of a target.
> 
> > [!Defensive]-
> > **Base condition:** If in cover and opponents in the open are visible, remain in position and fire.
> > 
> >> [!Alternative Movement]-
> > > | ROLL | ACTION                                                         |
> > > |------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
> > > | 1    | Remain in place to fire.                                       |
> > > | 2    | Maneuver within current cover to fire.                         |
> > > | 3    | Maneuver within current cover to fire.                         |
> > > | 4    | Maneuver within current cover to fire.                         |
> > > | 5    | Advance to the next forward position in cover.                 |
> > > | 6    | Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use cover.              |
> > > Notes:
> > > - **Next forward position:** The next cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question.
> > > - **Use cover:** The figure will attempt to remain in cover or out of sight. A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into cover. The figure will only end a move out of cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures.
> > > - **Manoeuvre within cover:** The figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in cover). If the figure is not in cover currently, it will move to find cover, Dashing if needed.
> 
> > [!Beast]-
> > - Beast enemies will always attempt to move as far as possible towards the nearest opponent, while remaining in Cover.
> > - They will only break Cover if they can enter a brawl within two moves. Otherwise, they will move to break Line of Sight and manoeuvre closer.
> > - When possible, Beasts will attempt to remain within 2” of a friendly figure, attacking the same targets.
> > 
> > ## Enemy Skulking
> > 
> > - Enemies with the Beast AI that end their activation unable to see a target roll 1D6.
> > - On a 5-6, they are immediately moved to the nearest terrain feature that is closer to a target figure.
> > - Place the Beast in the centre of the feature if possible, otherwise behind it and touching.
> 
> > [!Guardian]-
> > - Guardian enemies are attached to another figure and must always remain within 3” of that figure, if possible.
> > - They will move at the same pace and attack the same targets using the same methods (firing / Brawling), whenever possible.
> # **General Movement Rules**
> 
> > [!Stun]-
> > 
> > - If a figure is Stunned, they may either Move OR take a Combat Action on their turn but cannot do both.
> > - A figure can have only one Stun marker. Duplicate markers are ignored.
> > - After the figure activates, the Stun marker is removed.
> 
> > [!Shock]-
> > Shocked figures ignore stun results.
> > 
> > **If a figure is Shocked when they activate, they must act as follows:**
> > - If they are in the open and in sight of enemy figures, they must move towards the closest terrain where they would obtain cover.
> > - If they are in cover and in sight of enemy figures, if they can move in such a way to break line of sight from at least one enemy, they must do so.
> > - In all other circumstances, they remain in place.
> > - Shocked figures do not take a Combat Action.
> > 
> > After the figure activates, the Shock marker is removed.
> 
> > [!Movement Action]-
> > When moving, a figure may move up to their Speed in tabletop inches. Terrain features do not typically reduce movement speeds, but Difficult terrain will consume an additional 1” of movement allowance for every full 2” moved in it.
> > 
> > Opening doors costs 1” of movement. Climbing through a window or hole costs 2”.
> > 
> > A figure cannot move directly through another figure at any time.
> 
> > [!Vertical movement, jumping, falling and leaping]-
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Moving Up and Down]-
> > > Vertical obstacles can be traversed by simply paying the height of the obstacle in inches. For example, crossing a 2” tall wall uses 2” of movement allowance.
> > > 
> > > A descent of 1” or less can be performed for free. Any longer drop requires the character to either climb down. (with the same cost as climbing up), or Jump.
> > > 
> > > Skulker characters: When moving, they may ignore any obstacle up to 1” in height and do not count the first 1” of any climb for movement reduction purposes.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Jumping]-
> > > - Jumping does not require any available movement, meaning a character can move to an edge and Jump down.
> > > - Jumping down more than 1” ends the character's round.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Falling]-
> > > - Jumping down more than 1” ends the character's round.
> > > - Jumping (a fall is just a jump you did not intend!) down 3” or further inflicts a Damage +0 Hit with +1 Damage added for each additional 2”.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Leaping]-
> > > - Characters can leap over a gap up to 2” wide, counting it as part of their standard movement.
> > > - Swift characters may leap over gaps up to 4”.
> > 
> 
> > [!Random and Alternative Movement]-
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Random Movement]-
> > > A battle event or effect may cause a character to move randomly. Unless stated otherwise, determine the direction of movement and then move the figure its full standard movement distance in a straight line. The character will halt and become Stunned if they contact a terrain feature.
> > > 
> > > If a randomly moving character collides with another character, the moving character comes to a halt and is Stunned. The character collided with is pushed 1” along the direction of movement and then Stunned.
> > 
> > 
> > > [!Alternative Movement Actions]-
> > > Some characters may have access to different modes of movement that replace their normal movement, such as powered jumps or teleportation. Using an Alternative Movement Action replaces the normal Movement Action. The character may decide which movement to use each round. They cannot be used to replace a Dash.
> > > 
> > > A teleporting character that would materialize inside a solid object suffers a spatial shift. Move them 2D6” in a random direction. The character receives a Stun marker when this happens. If the new location is also inside an object, repeat the process and place a Shock marker. In the event a character would emerge in a location occupied by another character, the occupying character is Stunned instead, and the teleporting character suffers a spatial shift.
> > > 
> > > A character that materializes over an Impassable terrain feature such as a lava lake, toxic sludge pool, or similar, becomes a casualty and is removed from the battlefield.
> > > 
> > > Swift characters may glide down from a height. Pick a location that is below the current position of the figure and no farther away horizontally than the difference in the heights of the two locations. Place the figure at the new location. Resolve this as part of the Alternative Movement Action.
> > > 
> > > Simply Jumping down is a Free Action for a Swift. Gliding counts as a Swift’s Movement Action.
> > 
> 
> > [!Arc of Fire]-
> > 
> > All figures have an Arc of Fire to their front. 
> > - This is 90 degrees. 
> > - If the only ranged weapons carried are Pistols, the Arc of Fire is 180 degrees.
> > - Player figures can face in any direction at the end of a move action. 
> > - Enemies will face in the direction they moved if no enemies are visible. 
> > - Enemies that are able to fire at a target will always turn to face the target.
> 
> > [!Dash]-
> > Characters that do not intend to take a Combat Action can Dash, allowing them to move an additional 2”. 
> > 
> > Enemies will do so to reach cover or move into range. An enemy with a ranged weapon will not Dash if they are able to fire at a target.
> 
> 