
> [!Ranged Combat]-
> 
> > [!Eligibility to Fire]-
> > - A stunned character can either move or take an action but cannot do both. 
> > - A shocked character can not make a combat action.
> > - Characters with multiple weapons can choose any one weapon to fire.
> > 
> > > [!Lines of Sight]-
> > > A Line of Sight is an imaginary line between two figures, establishing if they can see and fire upon each other. In most cases, visibility is obvious. If in doubt, leaning down and getting a look from behind one of the figures will give you a “true” Line of Sight. If you can see the whole figure, then they can be fired at with no penalty. If you are uncertain, and the positioning is awkward, a laser line tool, or a length of string pulled taut can be used to check.
> > > 
> > > Lines of Sight are considered mutual by default. If a figure is obscured by certain types of terrain that they are adjacent to (within 1”), it is assumed that figure is using it to avoid being hit by an attacker, in which case, they gain the benefit of cover..
> > > 
> > > ## Shooting across Linear Obstacles
> > > Linear obstacles are ignored for Line of Sight purposes if the target figure is entirely visible over them. This is typically the case when the shooter is placed on a raised terrain feature, such as a rooftop. Otherwise, Line of Sight exists, and the target receives the benefits of cover unless the shooter is within 1” of the obstacle (such as firing from directly behind a wall).
> > > 
> > > ## Shooting past Things
> > > If the Line of Sight is obscured by a stray item, such as an Individual terrain feature (a rock or tree is often the culprit), Line of Sight is not blocked as long as they are at least partially visible.
> > > 
> > > ## Shooting past People
> > > If Line of Sight is partially obscured by another figure, Line of Sight is blocked, regardless of which side the intervening figure belongs to.
> > > 
> > > ## Area Features
> > > - Line of Sight into an Area feature terminates at the nearest edge.
> > > - Any figure placed in the feature, but touching an edge, can see and be seen from that side of the edge.
> > > - Figures within an Area feature and not touching an edge cannot see figures on the outside.
> > > - Figures within the same Area feature can see each other if they are within 3”.
> > > 
> > > ## Miniatures in Peculiar Poses
> > > Some miniatures are in dramatic poses, with raised arms, tails sticking out, and so forth. Clearly our imaginary characters are not quite so eager to have their limbs shot, so Lines of Sight and cover should be based on the body of the figure.
> > 
> > > [!Adjudicating Line of Sight and Cover]-
> > > In general, the game plays best if you are somewhat generous with Line of Sight as well as being somewhat generous with Cover. In other words:
> > > 
> > > **If in doubt, allow the shot to be made but count it as Cover.
> 
> > [!Gun Slinging]-
> > A figure may fire 2 Pistols if both are fired at the same target. Combat Skill is not added to the hit rolls when Gun Slinging.
> 
> > [!Target Selection]-
> > The target must be within the Arc of Fire of the figure.
> > 
> > Player controlled characters must shoot at the closest target within 3” and may otherwise select any target.
> > 
> > Targets must be within weapon range.
> > 
> > Enemies will always try to target the easiest target to hit, followed by the closest target. Pick randomly if needed.
> > 
> > Weapons with multiple Shots select an initial target and may then allocate additional Shots to that target or to targets within 3”. Enemies will always try to hit the most targets possible and allocate excess shots to the initial target.
> 
> > [!Cover and Rolling to hit]-
> > For each Shot, roll 1D6 and add the Combat Skill of the shooter, as well as any other hit modifiers.
> > ### - Targets in the open are hit on a final score of **5+**.
> > ### - Targets in cover are hit on a final score of **6+**.
> > 
> > Any final roll that does not score the required number or higher is a miss and has no effect.
> > > [!Cover]-
> > > 
> > > Cover makes it more difficult to hit a target at range, and moving across the battlefield using Cover is certainly wiser than standing in the open! A figure is considered to be in Cover for combat purposes if any of the following are true:
> > > - line of sight crossed any terrain feature more than 1” from the firer.
> > > - The figure is positioned within an Area feature.
> > > - The figure is in contact with a terrain feature that partially obscures line of sight.
> > > 
> > > ## Miniatures in Peculiar Poses
> > > Some miniatures are in dramatic poses, with raised arms, tails sticking out, and so forth. Clearly our imaginary characters are not quite so eager to have their limbs shot, so line of sight and Cover should be based on the body of the figure.
> > 
> > > [!Good Shot]-
> > >A figure has a Good Shot and if one of two conditions apply:
> > >
> > >1. **Height Advantage**: The firer is positioned at least one human figure height higher than the target. This only counts the terrain height; the height of the figures is irrelevant.
> > >2. **Flanking**: The target is in the open, and the firer is outside their Arc of Fire.
> > >
> > >If the attack is a Good Shot, the firer can reroll a single 1 on the firing dice.
> 
> > [!Panic Fire]-
> > 
> > A figure firing a Pistol may Panic Fire the weapon. The figure receives 1 additional Shot but the Pistol is not usable for the rest of the battle.
> 
> > [!Crouching]-
> > 
> > Terrain pieces that are no larger than a human figure allow a figure to Crouch if they are in contact and the line of fire crosses part of the terrain feature. Such features are usually barrels, crates, boulders or similar.
> > 
> > Crouching is automatic and does not take an action. It does not inhibit actions in any way.
> > 
> > If a ranged hit strikes a Crouching character, roll 1D6. On a 5-6 the terrain feature is blown to pieces but the hit is negated.
> 
> > [!Firefights]-
> > When shooting at a target, a Firefight occurs if:
> > 
> > 1. The firer is within the target's arc of fire and weapon range.
> > 2. All Shots missed and at least one rolled a natural 1 to hit.
> > 3. The target is not stunned or Shocked.
> > 
> > If a Firefight occurs, the target may immediately fire on the attacker. Firefight attacks hit only on a natural 6 and can in turn spawn Firefight attacks of their own. If multiple figures are eligible, only the closest figure may fire. 
> > 
> > Player characters may choose not to fire back.
> 
> > [!Lunging]-
> > Some figures may Lunge if the following conditions are met:
> > 
> > 1. They are fired upon and the firer is within the base move distance of the target.
> > 2. All shots miss and the target is not stunned or Shocked.
> > 3. The target has a Melee weapon OR lacks any ranged weapon.
> > 
> > If eligible, the target immediately takes a normal move to enter Brawling combat.
> > 
> > Player characters may choose not to.

