
If two opposing figures contact each other while moving, a brawl is resolved immediately.

> [!Brawling Combat]-
> 
> If two opposing figures contact each other while moving, a brawl is resolved immediately.
> 
> Each character selects the weapon they want to use.
> 
> - Roll 1D6 for each figure and add their Combat Skill.
>   - Add +1 if using a Pistol and +2 if using a Melee weapon. The enemy will always opt for the weapon with the highest bonus.
>   - The figure with the highest score inflicts a hit with the selected weapon. On a draw, both sides take a hit.
>   - A natural 6 on the attack roll inflicts a hit automatically. This is in addition to any hits inflicted if the figure wins.
>   - A natural 1 is a fumble, and the figure takes a hit from their opponent. This is in addition to any hits suffered if the figure loses.
> 
> Figures with no suitable weapon can improvise. They add +0 and strike with Damage +0.
> ### Stun and Shock
> - A figure moving to engage a stunned or Shocked opponent receives a +1 bonus to the die roll.
> 
> > [!Following Up]-
> > - A figure that eliminates its opponent may Follow Up.
> > - The figure can move 2” in any direction and may enter another brawl if able.
> > - If the opponent was pushed back but not eliminated, a Follow Up move is not permitted.
> 
> > [!Engaging while stunned]-
> > - As you cannot Move and take a Combat Action while stunned, player characters and most enemies cannot move to Brawling combat if they are stunned when they activate.
> > - However, enemies with Aggressive, Beast, and Rampaging AI are allowed to do so and suffer no penalty for doing so.
> 
> > [!Multiple Opponents]-
> > In some cases, an attacker might end up in contact with multiple opponents. Select randomly who fights first. Resolve the combat normally, with the outnumbering side getting a +1 bonus to the brawl roll.
> > 
> > If the lone fighter wins, they do not get a 2” bonus move, but must instead immediately fight the remaining opponent. No bonus applies in this case.
> > 
> > Only two combatants can fight against a single attacker. In the unlikely event a single attacker manages to contact three or more opponents in a single move, randomly select one that is pushed back 1”.