
> [!Resolving Hits]-
> 
> > [!Luck]-
> > 
> > A figure with Luck receives a Luck roll when they are hit. On a 4-6 the hit is negated and 1 point of Luck is used up. On a 1-3 the hit applies normally and Luck is not used up. This is done before making Saving Throws. Luck is restored after the end of the battle.
> > ##### **Humans are the only species that are allowed more than one point of Luck.
> 
> > [!Saving Throws]-
> > 
> > Figures with a Saving Throw roll 1D6 when they take a hit. If the die is equal to or above the Saving Throw score, the hit is negated. If the die is below the Saving Throw score, the hit connects normally and the Damage roll is made.
> > 
> > If a figure has more than one Saving Throw, they receive a single roll equal to the best available Saving Throw, improved one step.
> 
> > [!Rolling for damage]-
> > For each Shot that hits, roll 1D6 and add the Damage rating of the weapon.
> > 
> > - A score above the Toughness of the target produces a roll on the below casualty table.
> > - Critical Hit: If the Hit roll was a natural 6, roll one additional time on the casualty table and use the highest result as normal.
> > - A score **equal** to the Toughness score pushes the target 1” directly away from the attacker and  them.
> > - A score **below** the Toughness score pushes the target 1” directly away from the attacker and stun them.
> > 
> > A figure can only be Shocked or stunned once. Ignore duplicates shock takes precedence over stun.
> > 
> > > [!Humanoid Combatants]-
> > > 
> > > 
> > > | **REGULAR** | **BOSS** | **OUTCOME** | **EFFECT** |
> > > |-------------|----------|-------------|------------|
> > > | 1-2         | 1-2      | Dazed       | On their next activation, they do not remove a stunned marker automatically. Ignore this result if already Dazed. |
> > > | 3-4         | 3-5      | Wounded     | The character moves at half speed; Reduce their Combat Skill by 1 (this can potentially reduce you to -1). If Wounded again, they are a Goner (see below) |
> > > | 5-6         | 6        | Goner       | The character is removed from play. |
> > > 
> > 
> > > [!Cybernetic Combatants]-
> > > 
> > > | **REGULAR** | **BOSS** | **OUTCOME**            | **EFFECT** |
> > > |-------------|----------|------------------------|------------|
> > > | 1-2         | 1-2      | Temporary shutdown     | On their next activation, do not remove a stun marker automatically. Ignore this result if already shut down. |
> > > | 3-4         | 3-5      | Damaged                | Mark the figure with a token. Every time it activates, roll D6, with a 6 indicating that it falls apart and is removed from play. Multiple instances have no effect. Add +1 to future casualty rolls. |
> > > | 5-6         | 6        | Goner                  | The character is removed from play. |
> > > 
> > 
> > > [!Beasts and Monsters]-
> > > 
> > > | **REGULAR** | **BOSS** | **OUTCOME**           | **EFFECT** |
> > > |-------------|----------|-----------------------|------------|
> > > | 1-2         | 1-2      | Knock down / Drive off| Move 2” directly away from the firer per hit inflicted by the attack. |
> > > | 3-4         | 3-5      | Bleeding              | Roll D6 at the end of the character’s next activation: On a 1, the Bleeding condition ends. On a 6, they are a Goner. Add +1 to future injury rolls. Multiple instances have no effect. |
> > > | 5-6         | 6        | Goner                 | The character is removed from play. |
> > > 
> > ## All in a Day’s Work
> > 
> > Any Bleeding / Damaged / Wounded condition is removed at the end of the battle and has no long-term effects.
> 
>  > [!Stun]-
> >  
> >  - If a figure is Stunned, they may either Move OR take a Combat Action on their turn but cannot do both.
> >  - A figure can have only one Stun marker. Duplicate markers are ignored.
> >  - After the figure activates, the Stun marker is removed.
> 
> > [!Shock]-
> > Shocked figures ignore stun results.
> > 
> > **If a figure is Shocked when they activate, they must act as follows:**
> > - If they are in the open and in sight of enemy figures, they must move towards the closest terrain where they would obtain cover.
> > - If they are in cover and in sight of enemy figures, if they can move in such a way to break line of sight from at least one enemy, they must do so.
> > - In all other circumstances, they remain in place.
> > - Shocked figures do not take a Combat Action.
> > 
> > After the figure activates, the Shock marker is removed.
> 