
> [!Psionics]-
> 
> The term psionics covers a range of related phenomena that allow mental manipulation of the surrounding world. The Precursors maintain this stems from an innate understanding of the cosmic flow of energy; Swift rely on ritualistic chants that affect the sub-molecular vibrations of the world around them (or so it has been explained); others use drug or technology-enhanced techniques to tap into and project extra-dimensional energy.
> 
> These energies, regardless of how they are accessed and channelled, can produce startling and tangible effects on their surroundings.
> 
> Psionics can dramatically change both the tactics environment and feel of the setting. Games using psionics tend to feel more space-fantasy, which might appeal or not, depending on your own preferences. While users of psionics (“Psionics”, capital P) do exist in the Unified Space setting, they are very rare. Even if you prefer the published world, you are fully justified in omitting their usage.

> [!Psionics in Your Crew]-
> When creating a new crew to begin a campaign, you may pick any one crew figure to be a Psionic, noting any species restrictions given below. Make the determination before rolling up the rest of their profile. In other words, you cannot roll up all of your characters and then choose who is the Psionic.
> 
> Additionally:
> - Soulless and any type of Bot can never be a Psionic.
> - De-converted, Hulker, Genetic Uplift, and Bio-upgrade can never be a Psionic.
> 
> Once you have begun a campaign, any time you acquire a new Recruit, you may opt to pay 1 story point or 10 credits to have them be a Psionic, provided you do not currently have one in your crew.
> 
> You may never have more than one Psionic as part of your crew at any one time.

> [!Limitations]-
> 
> Due to a mixture of physical strain and having to commit time to honing psionic rather than physical skills, Psionics tend to be limited in traditional soldiering qualities:
> 
> - When creating a Psionic character, apply rolled ability score increases as normal. However, once the character is part of the campaign, they are unable to increase Combat Skill any further through experience points.
> - Psionics can only ever use weapons that have either the Pistol or Melee traits.
> - Psionics lose their abilities permanently if they are given any type of implant, even if it is later removed.

> [!Psionic Power Determination]-
> Once a Psionic has been recruited into your crew, determine their powers. Roll D10 twice on the table below to determine their two starting powers. In the event of rolling the same power a second time, choose either the power that is 1 number higher or lower on the table. Precursor characters use the method above, but may trade either of the dice for result 6 (Predict), if desired.
>
>> [!1: Barrier]-
>> - **Effects**: Select a target figure. Any ranged hit on the target is negated by the barrier on a D6 roll of 4+. Negated hits do not produce Stun markers. Environmental hazards and Brawling hits are not affected by the barrier, only shooting.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: Yes
>> - **Target Self?**: Yes
>> - **Persists?**: Yes
>
>> [!2: Grab]-
>> - **Effects**: Select a target figure. The target may either be pushed 1D6” directly away from or pulled 1D6” directly towards the Psionic. If the target contacts another figure or terrain feature, it halts half an inch short. Characters pulled off a ledge take normal falling damage (see core rules p. 42), but are not prevented from acting this round.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: Yes
>> - **Target Self?**: No
>> - **Persists?**: No
>
>> [!3: Lift]-
>> - **Effects**: Select a friendly or neutral* target figure (up to human-sized) and move them 1D6+1” in any direction. The target figure lands safely on the ground, and cannot be placed less than 0.5” from any other figure. *If the intentions of the figure are unknown, they count as ‘neutral’.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: Yes
>> - **Target Self?**: Yes
>> - **Persists?**: No
>
>> [!4: Shroud]-
>> - **Effects**: Place a wall of fog entirely within range. The wall is 3” wide, the height of a typical human miniature and 1” thick. The fog can be moved through normally, but blocks all lines of sight. Figures even partially within the fog cannot fire, and count as being in Cover. The psionic fog even blocks the use of psionic abilities.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: Yes
>> - **Target Self?**: No
>> - **Persists?**: Yes
>
>> [!5: Enrage]-
>> - **Effects**: This power is only usable on a figure that has not yet acted this round. They immediately move a full move +2” towards the nearest visible opponent, and attempt to engage them in Brawling combat. They are unable to act later in the round.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: No
>> - **Target Self?**: No
>> - **Persists?**: No
>
>> [!6: Predict]-
>> - **Effects**: When the target character next activates, they may roll twice for any one action they perform and pick the better score. If the action has multiple dice rolled (such as a weapon with multiple shots), roll one additional die, then discard one.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: No
>> - **Target Self?**: Yes
>> - **Persists?**: Yes
>
>> [!7: Shock]-
>> - **Effects**: The target receives 1 Stun marker.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: No
>> - **Target Self?**: No
>> - **Persists?**: No
>
>> [!8: Rejuvenate]-
>> - **Effects**: The target removes 1 Stun marker.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: No
>> - **Target Self?**: Yes
>> - **Persists?**: No
>
>> [!9: Guide]-
>> - **Effects**: An allied figure may immediately takes one Shot with any non-Area weapon carried. The target of the attack must be visible to the Psionic, but does not have to be in range. This does not prevent them from firing normally this round when activated.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: No
>> - **Target Self?**: Yes
>> - **Persists?**: No
>
>> [!10: Psionic Scare]-
>> - **Effects**: Immediately make a Morale check for the target figure, unless they would normally be immune to morale checks.
>> - **Affects Robotic Targets?**: No
>> - **Target Self?**: No
>> - **Persists?**: No
>
> **Table Notes**:
> - **Affects robotic targets**: If No, the following targets cannot be selected: War Bots, Security Bots, Soulless Task Force, Tech Zealots, Converted Acquisition, Converted Infiltrators, and Haywire Robots. The Mk II Security Bot and Cyborg Merc personalities are also ‘robotic’ for this definition. Apply common sense if you are using special foes from a scenario or from your own creation.
> - **Target self**: If marked as Yes, the Psionic may select themselves as a target.
> - **Persists**: If marked as Yes, the power lasts until the end of the following battle round.

> [!Using Powers]-
> 
> When activated, a Psionic may perform a Psionic Action as a bonus Action. Once this is resolved, they may THEN move and perform an Action exactly as any other figure. The sequence cannot be changed, meaning the Psionic must be able to see an intended target when they are activated.
> 
> A Psionic Action allows the character to select one of their powers. To use it, first select a valid target, and then make a 2D6 Projection roll. The power will project to a range equal to the roll in inches. If the target is within range, the power takes effect immediately. If the power is targeting the Psionic themselves, the power works automatically.
> 
> If the roll is not high enough to reach the target, the Psionic may choose to Strain themselves: Roll one additional D6, and increase the distance by the score rolled. Straining your mind is dangerous. If the additional D6 result is a 4-5, the Psionic is stunned, but the power takes effect. If the roll is a 6, the Psionic is stunned, but the power fails.
> 
> Swift characters are particularly robust: They will be stunned on a 5-6, and suffer no other effects.
> 
> **Psionic targets:** In addition to any restrictions given in the Powers table, targets must be visible to the Psionic. Psionics can see any target in line of sight, even if partially obscured by terrain features and can “see through” friendly and hostile characters on the battlefield. Visibility limitations due to darkness, fog, or similar will inhibit psionic targeting normally.

> [!The Legality of Psionics]-
> 
> 
> **D100 ROLL
> 
> 
>> [!1–25 Outlawed]- 
> >If Psionics are illegal, a Psionic does not run any risk of detection unless they actively use a power during combat. If they do, planetary authorities (or another party interested in suppressing psionic rights) may take action. If a Psionic uses a power during combat, roll D6 during the post-game step ‘1. Resolve Rival Status’, and consult the table below:
> >
> >**Psionic Usage | Psionics Detected**
> >
> >- **A character used a psionic power once during the battle**  
>   Roll a 1.
> >
>> - **A character used psionic powers multiple times**  
>   Roll a 1-2.
> >
>> If the indicated result is rolled, a band of Psi-hunters are now on your tail. Roll D6 again to determine the exact type:
> >
> >**1D6 Roll | rivals | Notes**
> >- **1-2 | Bounty Hunters**  
>   From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable
> >- **3 | Vigilantes**  
>   From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable
> >- **4-5 | Enforcers**  
>   From the [[Hired Muscle]] subtable
> >- **6 | Colonial Militia**  
>   From the [[Interested Parties]] subtable
>>
> >Note on your record sheet that these rivals are Psi-hunters in addition to their normal type. They are subject to the following adjustments:
>> 
>> - Seize the Initiative rolls against them must be taken at a -2 modifier.
> >- After generating the number and nature of enemies, add 1 additional Specialist enemy to their force.
> >- Psi-hunters add +1 to their attack roll when shooting at or Brawling with a Psionic character.
> 
 >>[!26–55 Highly Unusual]-
>> 
>> If you are on a world where “Psionics will draw attention,” there is a chance that psionic usage will result in reinforcements showing up. Every time you use a psionic power, if two or more of the Projection roll dice show 6s, the blast of energy has caused a stir, and the enemy is going to call for reinforcements.
>> 
>> Reinforcements will arrive at the end of the next round unless you have cleared the table of opponents by then. Roll three D6 and check each die for a result on the table below:
>> 
>> **1D6 Roll | Reinforcements**
>> 
>> - **1 | None**  
>> - **2-5 | A basic enemy**  
>> - **6 | An enemy Specialist**  
>> 
>> *Example:* If the result was 1, 2, and 5, the 1 results in no reinforcements, but the 2 and the 5 both result in a basic enemy, so TWO basic enemies show up as reinforcements.
>> 
>> Note that it is theoretically possible to roll three 1s for the reinforcements. In this case, while attention was drawn to the battle, potential reinforcements thought better of getting involved.
>> 
>> Reinforcements can arrive only once in each battle and will appear at the centre of the enemy table edge.
> 
> - **56-100 Who Cares?**  
>   Psionics are a common enough sight that they do not result in any unusual effects.

> [!Enemy Psionics]-
> 
> If you have chosen to include Psionics in your campaign, you may choose to allow the enemy to include Psionics. Determine if an encounter features an enemy Psionic by going through the steps below in sequence:
> 
> 1. **Rogue Psionic**  
>    If you are facing a Rogue Psionic from the [[Unique Individual]] table, they are automatically a Psionic with two powers selected from the Enemy Psionic Power table below.
> 
> 2. **Swift or Precursor**  
>    If you are facing Swift or Precursors, a randomly selected enemy figure is automatically a Psionic with one power randomly determined from the Enemy Psionic Power table below.
> 
> 
> 4. **All Other Cases**  
>    Roll 1D6. On a result of 4+, a randomly selected enemy figure is a Psionic with 1 power selected from the Enemy Psionic Power table below.
> 
> Note that, other than the Rogue Psionic, no other [[Unique Individual]] can be a Psionic.
> 
> The selected figure replaces their normal armaments with a [[Handgun]] and [[Blade]]. If their Toughness would normally be 4 or lower, raise it by +1, as surviving wild Psionics are usually pretty rough around the edges.
> 
> All powers are rolled randomly on the table below. If the same power is rolled twice, the Psionic has only a single power.
> 
>> [!Enemy Psionic Powers]-
>> 
>> When facing an enemy Psionic, roll on the following table to determine their powers. Each Psionic will have one power unless specified otherwise.
>> 
>> | D10 Roll | Power        | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
>> | -------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
>> | 1        | Assail       | When the Psionic activates, select the closest crew figure in sight and roll 2D6. If the roll equals or exceeds the distance to the target in inches, the crew figure is pushed directly backwards 1D6” and is Stunned. This may knock them off a ledge or into/through dangerous terrain.                                                                                                                                               |
>> | 2        | Reflect      | The Psionic receives a 4+ saving throw against any non-Area ranged attack. This save cannot be negated by Piercing weapons. On a roll of 6, the attack is deflected to strike the closest crew figure in sight of the Psionic.                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
>> | 3        | Bolster      | All enemy figures are Fearless.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
>> | 4        | Slow         | When rolling for initiative at the beginning of the round, one of your dice is automatically set to a 6. Roll the remaining dice normally.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
>> | 5        | Direct       | When the Psionic activates, the closest allied figure visible to them will immediately fire if capable, receiving their full number of Shots. This does not prevent them from firing during their normal activation. If the Psionic is unable to see any allies, nothing happens.                                                                                                                                                            |
>> | 6        | Obscure      | Shots against the Psionic and any enemy within 4” of the Psionic require a natural 6 to hit. Shooters within 4” of the intended target are not affected by this rule.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
>> | 7        | Dominate     | When the Psionic activates, the closest crew figure in sight is targeted. The target must roll 1D6+Savvy and score a 5+ to resist. If failed, the crew figure will immediately fire their full number of Shots at their closest visible ally. This does not affect their ability to act normally this round. If no allies are in sight of them, the crew figure is Stunned instead. This power cannot affect Soulless or Bot characters. |
>> | 8        | Crush        | When the Psionic activates, the closest crew figure in sight takes a +0 Damage hit. If the attack fails to do damage or is stopped by Armor, it does not Stunned or Stun the target.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
>> | 9        | Paralyze     | All crew figures assigned a 6 when rolling for initiative cannot take any actions this round, and are struck automatically if engaged in Brawling combat.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
>> | 10       | Psionic Rage | All allies of the Psionic (but not the Psionic themselves) reroll 1s when Brawling.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
>> 
>> ### Additional Notes:
>> - Enemy Psionics using these rules do not suffer from Strain.
>> - While the Dominate power cannot affect Soulless or Bot characters, all other powers work normally.
>> - If the Psionic becomes a casualty, all effects cease immediately.
>> - Powers that take effect upon activation are resolved when the Psionic is selected for activation, but before they have moved or taken any actions.